README.md, before:

# op-succinct

Standalone repo to use Kona & SP1 to verify OP Stack blocks.


## ⚠️ Work in Progress

**Warning**: This repository is currently a work in progress. The code and documentation are actively being developed and may be subject to significant changes. Use with caution and expect frequent updates.


## Overview

**`crates`**
- `client-utils`: A suite of utilities for the client program.
- `host-utils`: A suite of utilities for constructing the host which runs the OP Succinct program.

**`op-succinct`**
- `native-host`: The host program which runs the `op-succinct` program natively using `kona`.
- `zkvm-host`: The host program which runs the `op-succinct` program in the SP1 zkVM.
- `programs`: The programs proven in SP1.
    - `fault-proof` and `range` are used to verifiably derive and execute single blocks
    and batches of blocks respectively. Their binary's are first run in native mode on the `kona-host` to
    fetch the witness data, then they use SP1 to verifiably execute the program.
   - For `aggregation`, which is used to generate an aggregate proof for a set of batches,
   first generate proofs for `range` programs for each batch, then use `aggregation` to
   generate an aggregate proof.

## Running `op-succinct`

For instructions on how to upgrade an OP Stack chain to use ZK validity proofs, refer to the [`op-succinct` Guide](./op-succinct-proposer/TUTORIAL.md).

## Estimating Cycle Counts

To learn how to estimate cycle counts for a given block range, check out our [Cycle Count Guide](./zkvm-host/CYCLE_COUNT.md).

## Open Source

This code is open sourced under the [Apache 2.0 License](./LICENSE.txt).

Commit message:

docs: book tweaks (#90)
* Update README.md

* Added book

* chore: book tweaks

* feat: more docs'

* more changes

* readme

* cleanup

* fix errors

* hm

* fix url

* fix docker

* hm

---------

Co-authored-by: puma314 <puma314@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Uma Roy <uma.roy.us@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: ratankaliani <ratan@succinct.xyz>

README.md, after:

# op-succinct

OP Succinct turns any OP stack rollup into a full type-1 zkEVM Rollup in 1 hour using SP1.

**[Docs](https://succinctlabs.github.io/op-succinct)**
| [Learn More](https://succinctlabs.github.io/op-succinct)

> [!CAUTION]
>
> This repository is still an active work-in-progress and is not audited or meant for production usage.

## Getting Started

Today, you can already use OP Succinct to upgrade any existing OP Stack rollup to a type-1 zkEVM rollup. To get started, make sure you have [Rust](https://rustup.rs/), [Foundry](https://book.getfoundry.sh/), and [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) installed. Then, follow the steps in the [book]() to deploy the `ZKL2OutputOracle` contract and start the `op-succinct-proposer` service.

## Repository Overview

The repository is organized into the following directories:

- `book`: The documentation for OP Succinct users and developers.
- `contracts`: The solidity contracts for posting state roots to L1.
- `programs`: The programs for proving the execution and derivation of the L2 state transitions and proof aggregation.
- `proposer`: The implementation of the `op-succinct-proposer` service.
- `scripts`: The scripts for proving and generating witnesses.

## Acknowlements

This repo could not exist without:
* [OP Stack](https://docs.optimism.io/stack/getting-started): Modular software components for building L2 blockchains.
* [Kona](https://github.com/anton-rs/kona/tree/main): A portable implementations of the OP Stack rollup state transition, namely the derivation pipeline and the block execution logic.
* [SP1](https://github.com/succinctlabs/sp1): A fast, feature-complete zkVM for developers that can prove the execution of arbitrary Rust (or any LLVM-compiled) program.
