tests/README.md, before:

# E2E Tests

This directory hosts the end-to-end tests for `op-succinct`, built on top of
Optimism's devstack. Use the `justfile` here to prepare contract artifacts and
run the suite with the expected environment.

## Layout

- `e2e/`: Go e2e tests (validity and faultproof proposers).
- `artifacts/`: Contract artifacts; a compressed tarball lives at
  `artifacts/compressed/artifacts.tzst` and is unpacked into `artifacts/src`
  before tests.
- `optimism/`: Vendored `succinctlabs/optimism` repository using
  `op-succinct-sysgo` branch, which contains `op-succinct` integration code with
  Optimism devstack.
- `bindings/`, `presets/`, `utils/`: Presets, helpers and generated code used by
  the tests.

## Prerequisites

- Go 1.23+ (matches `go.mod`).
- Rust toolchain (to build the `validity` binary).
- `just`, `zstd`, and `tar` available on your PATH.

## Setup

1. From this directory, fetch/update contract artifacts:

   ```just
   just update-packages
   ```

   This rebuilds artifacts via the vendored Optimism deployer and saves them to
   `artifacts/compressed/artifacts.tzst`.

2. Unpack artifacts (auto-run by the test target, but available standalone):

   ```just
   just unzip-contract-artifacts
   ```

## Running the e2e suite

- Run everything (builds both binaries, unpacks artifacts):

  ```just
  just test-e2e-sysgo
  ```

- Validity proposer only:

  ```just
  just test-e2e-sysgo ./e2e/validity/...
  ```

- Faultproof proposer only:

  ```just
  just test-e2e-sysgo ./e2e/faultproof/...
  ```

- Run a single test with a filter:

  ```just
  just test-e2e-sysgo ./e2e/validity/... TestValidityProposer_ProveSingleRange
  ```

## Long-Running Tests

Keep the stack running indefinitely for manual debugging:

```bash
# Validity proposer
just long-running validity

# Fault proof proposer
just long-running faultproof
```

Press `Ctrl+C` to stop.

### Environment Files

At startup, an env file is written with all variables needed for debugging:

- Validity: `.env.validity`
- Fault proof: `.env.faultproof`

Source it to use with tools like `cast`:

```bash
source .env.validity
cast block-number --rpc-url $L2_RPC
```

## Maintenance

- `tests/optimism` is a git submodule that pins the
  `succinctlabs/optimism` fork on the `op-succinct-sysgo` branch, which carries
  Succinct-specific devstack changes. Rebase that branch onto
  `ethereum-optimism/optimism` (`develop` branch) whenever we need upstream fixes,
  new OP Stack features, or contract updates that affect the e2e suite.
- Changes to the fork should land via PRs into `succinctlabs/optimism` targeting
  `op-succinct-sysgo`.
- After merging fork updates, advance the `tests/optimism` submodule to the new
  commit, run `go mod tidy` in `tests` if dependencies changed, regenerate
  artifacts with `just update-packages`, and rerun tests to confirm the vendored
  stack still passes our tests.

Commit message:

feat: add monitoring for validity

tests/README.md, after:

# E2E Tests

This directory hosts the end-to-end tests for `op-succinct`, built on top of
Optimism's devstack. Use the `justfile` here to prepare contract artifacts and
run the suite with the expected environment.

## Layout

- `e2e/`: Go e2e tests (validity and faultproof proposers).
- `artifacts/`: Contract artifacts; a compressed tarball lives at
  `artifacts/compressed/artifacts.tzst` and is unpacked into `artifacts/src`
  before tests.
- `optimism/`: Vendored `succinctlabs/optimism` repository using
  `op-succinct-sysgo` branch, which contains `op-succinct` integration code with
  Optimism devstack.
- `bindings/`, `presets/`, `utils/`: Presets, helpers and generated code used by
  the tests.

## Prerequisites

- Go 1.23+ (matches `go.mod`).
- Rust toolchain (to build the `validity` binary).
- `just`, `zstd`, and `tar` available on your PATH.

## Setup

1. From this directory, fetch/update contract artifacts:

   ```just
   just update-packages
   ```

   This rebuilds artifacts via the vendored Optimism deployer and saves them to
   `artifacts/compressed/artifacts.tzst`.

2. Unpack artifacts (auto-run by the test target, but available standalone):

   ```just
   just unzip-contract-artifacts
   ```

## Running the e2e suite

- Run everything (builds both binaries, unpacks artifacts):

  ```just
  just test-e2e-sysgo
  ```

- Validity proposer only:

  ```just
  just test-e2e-sysgo ./e2e/validity/...
  ```

- Faultproof proposer only:

  ```just
  just test-e2e-sysgo ./e2e/faultproof/...
  ```

- Run a single test with a filter:

  ```just
  just test-e2e-sysgo ./e2e/validity/... TestValidityProposer_ProveSingleRange
  ```

## Long-Running Tests

Keep the stack running indefinitely for manual debugging:

```bash
# Validity proposer
just long-running validity

# Fault proof proposer
just long-running faultproof
```

Press `Ctrl+C` to stop.

### Environment Files

At startup, an env file is written with all variables needed for debugging:

- Validity: `.env.validity`
- Fault proof: `.env.faultproof`

Source it to use with tools like `cast`:

```bash
source .env.validity
cast block-number --rpc-url $L2_RPC
```

## Monitoring

Metrics are disabled by default. Enable Grafana and Prometheus for debugging by
setting `SYSGO_METRICS_ENABLED=true`:

```bash
SYSGO_METRICS_ENABLED=true just long-running validity
SYSGO_METRICS_ENABLED=true just long-running faultproof
```

> **Note**: Run only one test at a time when metrics are enabled. Multiple
> concurrent tests will cause port conflicts.

| Service    | URL                   | Credentials |
|------------|-----------------------|-------------|
| Grafana    | http://localhost:3000 | admin/admin |
| Prometheus | http://localhost:9999 | -           |

Dashboard configurations are located in `monitoring/`.

## Maintenance

- `tests/optimism` is a git submodule that pins the
  `succinctlabs/optimism` fork on the `op-succinct-sysgo` branch, which carries
  Succinct-specific devstack changes. Rebase that branch onto
  `ethereum-optimism/optimism` (`develop` branch) whenever we need upstream fixes,
  new OP Stack features, or contract updates that affect the e2e suite.
- Changes to the fork should land via PRs into `succinctlabs/optimism` targeting
  `op-succinct-sysgo`.
- After merging fork updates, advance the `tests/optimism` submodule to the new
  commit, run `go mod tidy` in `tests` if dependencies changed, regenerate
  artifacts with `just update-packages`, and rerun tests to confirm the vendored
  stack still passes our tests.
