book/getting-started/configuration.md, before:

# Configuration

The last step is to update your OP Stack configuration to use the new `OPSuccinctL2OutputOracle` contract managed by the `op-succinct-proposer` service.

> ⚠️ **Warning**: All proposed, non-finalized output roots on the `L2OutputOracleProxy` will be automatically finalized after the upgrade to `op-succinct`, as the `finalizationPeriod` is set to 0 by default. For security, we recommend ensuring that all old proposer output roots are correct before upgrading.

## Self-Managed OP Stack Chains

If you are using a self-managed OP Stack chain, you will need to use your `ADMIN` key to update the existing `L2OutputOracle` implementation. Recall that the `L2OutputOracle` is a proxy contract that is upgradeable using the `ADMIN` key.

To update the `L2OutputOracle` implementation, run the following command in `/contracts`:

```bash
forge script script/OPSuccinctUpgrader.s.sol:OPSuccinctUpgrader \
    --rpc-url $L1_RPC \
    --private-key $PRIVATE_KEY \
    --verify \
    --verifier etherscan \
    --etherscan-api-key $ETHERSCAN_API_KEY \
    --broadcast \
    --ffi
```

## RaaS Providers

More information for how to configure an OP Stack RaaS provider deployment will be available soon.

Commit message:

feat: downgrade `kona` (#179)
* feat: use patched version of kona with empty root changes

* feat: kona source issue

* feat: add script to verify vkeys (#175)

* feat: validate contract config (#176)

* validate config

* refactor

* refactor

* use right sol

* add

* feat: code

* add

* docs: `finalizationPeriod` (#177)

* fix

book/getting-started/configuration.md, after:

# Configuration

The last step is to update your OP Stack configuration to use the new `OPSuccinctL2OutputOracle` contract managed by the `op-succinct-proposer` service.

> ⚠️ **Caution**: When upgrading to the `OPSuccinctL2OutputOracle` contract, maintain the existing `finalizationPeriod` for a duration equal to at least one `finalizationPeriod`. Failure to do so will result in immediate finalization of all pending output roots upon upgrade, which is unsafe. Only after this waiting period has elapsed should you set the `finalizationPeriod` to 0.

## Self-Managed OP Stack Chains

If you are using a self-managed OP Stack chain, you will need to use your `ADMIN` key to update the existing `L2OutputOracle` implementation. Recall that the `L2OutputOracle` is a proxy contract that is upgradeable using the `ADMIN` key.

To update the `L2OutputOracle` implementation, run the following command in `/contracts`:

```bash
forge script script/OPSuccinctUpgrader.s.sol:OPSuccinctUpgrader \
    --rpc-url $L1_RPC \
    --private-key $PRIVATE_KEY \
    --verify \
    --verifier etherscan \
    --etherscan-api-key $ETHERSCAN_API_KEY \
    --broadcast \
    --ffi
```

## RaaS Providers

More information for how to configure an OP Stack RaaS provider deployment will be available soon.
