book/validity/quick-start.md, before:

# Quick Start

This guide will walk you through the steps to deploy OP Succinct for your OP Stack chain. By the end of this guide, you will have a deployed smart contract on L1 that is tracking the state of your OP Stack chain with mock SP1 proofs.

## Prerequisites

- Compatible RPCs. If you don't have these already, see [Node Setup](../advanced/node-setup.md) for more information.
  - L1 Archive Node (`L1_RPC`)
  - L2 Execution Node (`L2_RPC`)
  - L2 Rollup Node (`L2_NODE_RPC`)
- [Foundry](https://book.getfoundry.sh/getting-started/installation)
- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-started/)
- [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install)
- [Just](https://github.com/casey/just?tab=readme-ov-file#installation)

``` admonish info
On Ubuntu, you'll need some system dependencies to run the service: `curl`, `clang`, `pkg-config`,
`libssl-dev`, `ca-certificates`, `git`, `libclang-dev`, and `jq`. You can see the [Dockerfile](https://github.com/succinctlabs/op-succinct/blob/main/validity/Dockerfile#L38) for more details.
```

## Step 1: Set environment variables.

In the root directory, create a file called `.env` and set the following environment variables:

| Parameter | Description |
|-----------|-------------|
| `L1_RPC` | L1 Archive Node. |
| `L2_RPC` | L2 Execution Node (`op-geth`). |
| `L2_NODE_RPC` | L2 Rollup Node (`op-node`). |
| `PRIVATE_KEY` | Private key for the account that will be deploying the contract. |
| `ETHERSCAN_API_KEY` | Etherscan API key for verifying the deployed contracts. |

```admonish info
If your integration requires access to consensus-layer data, set the `L1_BEACON_RPC` (L1 Beacon Node).  
This is optional and not required by default.
```

## Step 2: Deploy an `SP1MockVerifier` for verifying mock proofs

Deploy an `SP1MockVerifier` for verifying mock proofs by running the following command:

```shell
% just deploy-mock-verifier
[⠊] Compiling...
[⠑] Compiling 1 files with Solc 0.8.15
[⠘] Solc 0.8.15 finished in 615.84ms
Compiler run successful!
Script ran successfully.

== Return ==
0: address 0x4cb20fa9e6FdFE8FDb6CE0942c5f40d49c898646

....
```

In these deployment logs, `0x4cb20fa9e6FdFE8FDb6CE0942c5f40d49c898646` is the address of the `SP1MockVerifier` contract.

## Step 3: Deploy the `OPSuccinctL2OutputOracle` contract

This contract is a modification of Optimism's `L2OutputOracle` contract which verifies a proof along with the proposed state root.

First, add the address of the `SP1MockVerifier` contract from the previous step to the `.env` file in the root directory.

| Parameter | Description |
|-----------|-------------|
| `VERIFIER_ADDRESS` | The address of the `SP1MockVerifier` contract. |

Now, you should have the following in your `.env` file:

| Parameter | Description |
|-----------|-------------|
| `L1_RPC` | L1 Archive Node. |
| `L1_BEACON_RPC` | L1 Beacon Node. |
| `L2_RPC` | L2 Execution Node (`op-geth`). |
| `L2_NODE_RPC` | L2 Rollup Node (`op-node`). |
| `PRIVATE_KEY` | Private key for the account that will be deploying the contract. |
| `ETHERSCAN_API_KEY` | Etherscan API key for verifying the deployed contracts. |
| `VERIFIER_ADDRESS` | The address of the `SP1MockVerifier` contract. |

Then, deploy the `OPSuccinctL2OutputOracle` contract by running the following command:

```shell
% just deploy-oracle    
...

== Return ==
0: address 0xde4656D4FbeaC0c0863Ab428727e3414Fa251A4C
```

In these deployment logs, `0xde4656D4FbeaC0c0863Ab428727e3414Fa251A4C` is the address of the proxy for the `OPSuccinctL2OutputOracle` contract. This deployed proxy contract is used to track the verified state roots of the OP Stack chain on L1.

## Step 4: Set `op-succinct` service environment variables

To start the mock `op-succinct` service, add the following parameters to the `.env` file in the root directory:

| Parameter | Description |
|-----------|-------------|
| `L2OO_ADDRESS` | The address of the `OPSuccinctL2OutputOracle` contract from the previous step. |
| `OP_SUCCINCT_MOCK` | When set to `true`, the `op-succinct` service will generate mock proofs. For this quick start guide, set to `true`. |

Now, you should have the following in your `.env` file:

| Parameter | Description |
|-----------|-------------|
| `L1_RPC` | L1 Archive Node. |
| `L1_BEACON_RPC` | L1 Beacon Node. |
| `L2_RPC` | L2 Execution Node (`op-geth`). |
| `L2_NODE_RPC` | L2 Rollup Node (`op-node`). |
| `PRIVATE_KEY` | Private key for the account that will be deploying the contract and relaying proofs on-chain. |
| `ETHERSCAN_API_KEY` | Etherscan API key for verifying the deployed contracts. |
| `L2OO_ADDRESS` | The address of the `OPSuccinctL2OutputOracle` contract from the previous step. |
| `OP_SUCCINCT_MOCK` | When set to `true`, the `op-succinct` service will generate mock proofs. For this quick start guide, set to `true`. |

``` admonish info
When running just the proposer, you won't need the `ETHERSCAN_API_KEY` or `VERIFIER_ADDRESS` environment variables. These are only required for contract deployment.
```

## Step 5: Start the `op-succinct` service in mock mode.

We provide a Docker Compose file for running the `op-succinct` service.

#### Build the Docker Compose setup.

```shell
docker compose build
```

#### Run the Proposer

This command launches the [op-succinct](./proposer.md) in the background.

After a few minutes, you should see the OP Succinct proposer start to generate mock range proofs. Once enough range proofs have been generated, a mock aggregation proof will be created and submitted to the L1.

```shell
docker compose up
```

To see the logs of the `op-succinct` service, run:

```shell
docker compose logs -f
```

To stop the `op-succinct` service, run:

```shell
docker compose stop
```

Commit message:

docs: some notes and refinements for smoother onboarding (#662)
* docs: misc improvements primarily around fault-proofs

* fix: add just installation for testing

* nit

* refactor: improve fp upgrade process

* fix: mock verifier link

* fix: -v flag when docker down

* docs: easier validity quick start to follow

* fix: remove eigenda configs from env + note

* nit: consistent wording in expr sections

* fix: remove eigenda unnecessary variables

book/validity/quick-start.md, after:

# Quick Start

This guide will walk you through the steps to deploy OP Succinct for your OP Stack chain. By the end of this guide, you will have a deployed smart contract on L1 that is tracking the state of your OP Stack chain with mock SP1 proofs and Ethereum as the data availability layer. 

```admonish note
For OP Stack chain with alternative DA layers, please refer to the [Experimental Features](./experimental/experimental.md) section.
```

## Prerequisites

- Compatible RPCs. If you don't have these already, see [Node Setup](../advanced/node-setup.md) for more information.
  - L1 Archive Node (`L1_RPC`)
  - L2 Execution Node (`L2_RPC`)
  - L2 Rollup Node (`L2_NODE_RPC`)
- [Foundry](https://book.getfoundry.sh/getting-started/installation)
- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-started/)
- [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install)
- [Just](https://github.com/casey/just?tab=readme-ov-file#installation)

``` admonish info
On Ubuntu, you'll need some system dependencies to run the service: `curl`, `clang`, `pkg-config`,
`libssl-dev`, `ca-certificates`, `git`, `libclang-dev`, and `jq`. You can see the [Dockerfile](https://github.com/succinctlabs/op-succinct/blob/main/validity/Dockerfile#L38) for more details.
```

## Step 1: Set environment variables.

In the root directory, create a file called `.env` and set the following environment variables:

| Parameter | Description |
|-----------|-------------|
| `L1_RPC` | L1 Archive Node. |
| `L2_RPC` | L2 Execution Node (`op-geth`). |
| `L2_NODE_RPC` | L2 Rollup Node (`op-node`). |
| `PRIVATE_KEY` | Private key for the account that will be deploying the contract. |
| `ETHERSCAN_API_KEY` | Etherscan API key for verifying the deployed contracts. |

```admonish note
If your integration requires access to consensus-layer data, set the
`L1_BEACON_RPC` (L1 Beacon Node). This is optional and not required by default.
```

```admonish info
Obtaining a Test Private Key

- Anvil (local devnet): Run `anvil` and use one of the pre-funded accounts printed on startup. Copy the Private Key value for any account. Only use these on your local Anvil network.

- Foundry (generate a fresh key): Run `cast wallet new` to generate a human-readable output. Save the private key and fund it on your test network.

⚠️ **Caution:** Never use test keys on mainnet or with real assets.
```

## Step 2: Deploy an `SP1MockVerifier` for verifying mock proofs

Deploy an `SP1MockVerifier` for verifying mock proofs by running the following command:

```shell
% just deploy-mock-verifier
[⠊] Compiling...
[⠑] Compiling 1 files with Solc 0.8.15
[⠘] Solc 0.8.15 finished in 615.84ms
Compiler run successful!
Script ran successfully.

== Return ==
0: address 0x4cb20fa9e6FdFE8FDb6CE0942c5f40d49c898646
....
```
In these deployment logs, `0x4cb20fa9e6FdFE8FDb6CE0942c5f40d49c898646` is the address of the `SP1MockVerifier` contract.

Add the address of the `SP1MockVerifier` contract to the `.env` file in the root directory.

| Parameter | Description |
|-----------|-------------|
| `VERIFIER_ADDRESS` | The address of the `SP1MockVerifier` contract. |


## Step 3: Deploy the `OPSuccinctL2OutputOracle` contract

This contract is a modification of Optimism's `L2OutputOracle` contract which verifies a proof along with the proposed state root.

Now, you should have the following in your `.env` file:

| Parameter | Description |
|-----------|-------------|
| `L1_RPC` | L1 Archive Node. |
| `L1_BEACON_RPC` | L1 Beacon Node. |
| `L2_RPC` | L2 Execution Node (`op-geth`). |
| `L2_NODE_RPC` | L2 Rollup Node (`op-node`). |
| `PRIVATE_KEY` | Private key for the account that will be deploying the contract. |
| `ETHERSCAN_API_KEY` | Etherscan API key for verifying the deployed contracts. |
| `VERIFIER_ADDRESS` | The address of the `SP1MockVerifier` contract. |

Then, deploy the `OPSuccinctL2OutputOracle` contract by running the following
command. This command automatically fetches and stores the rollup configuration,
loads the required environment variables, and executes the Foundry deployment
script, optionally verifying the contract on Etherscan

```shell
% just deploy-oracle    
...

== Return ==
0: address 0xde4656D4FbeaC0c0863Ab428727e3414Fa251A4C
```

In these deployment logs, `0xde4656D4FbeaC0c0863Ab428727e3414Fa251A4C` is the address of the proxy for the `OPSuccinctL2OutputOracle` contract. This deployed proxy contract is used to track the verified state roots of the OP Stack chain on L1.

## Step 4: Set `op-succinct` service environment variables

To start the mock `op-succinct` service, add the following parameters to the `.env` file in the root directory:

| Parameter | Description |
|-----------|-------------|
| `L2OO_ADDRESS` | The address of the `OPSuccinctL2OutputOracle` contract from the previous step. |
| `OP_SUCCINCT_MOCK` | When set to `true`, the `op-succinct` service will generate mock proofs. For this quick start guide, set to `true`. |

Now, you should have the following in your `.env` file:

| Parameter | Description |
|-----------|-------------|
| `L1_RPC` | L1 Archive Node. |
| `L1_BEACON_RPC` | L1 Beacon Node. |
| `L2_RPC` | L2 Execution Node (`op-geth`). |
| `L2_NODE_RPC` | L2 Rollup Node (`op-node`). |
| `PRIVATE_KEY` | Private key for the account that will be deploying the contract and relaying proofs on-chain. |
| `ETHERSCAN_API_KEY` | Etherscan API key for verifying the deployed contracts. |
| `L2OO_ADDRESS` | The address of the `OPSuccinctL2OutputOracle` contract from the previous step. |
| `OP_SUCCINCT_MOCK` | When set to `true`, the `op-succinct` service will generate mock proofs. For this quick start guide, set to `true`. |

``` admonish info
When running just the proposer, you won't need the `ETHERSCAN_API_KEY` or `VERIFIER_ADDRESS` environment variables. These are only required for contract deployment.
```

## Step 5: Start the `op-succinct` service in mock mode.

We provide a Docker Compose file for running the `op-succinct` service.

#### Build the Docker Compose setup.

```shell
docker compose build
```

#### Run the Proposer

This command launches the [op-succinct](./proposer.md) in the background.

After a few minutes, you should see the OP Succinct proposer start to generate mock range proofs. Once enough range proofs have been generated, a mock aggregation proof will be created and submitted to the L1.

```shell
docker compose up
```

To see the logs of the `op-succinct` service, run:

```shell
docker compose logs -f
```

To stop the `op-succinct` service, run:

```shell
docker compose stop
```
