book/quick-start/full.md, before:

# Full OP Succinct

Running OP Succinct in full mode will generate proofs of valid OP Stack L2 outputs and submit them to the L1.

## Prerequisites

You will need a whitelisted key on the Succinct Prover Network. Follow the instructions [here](https://docs.succinct.xyz/docs/generating-proofs/prover-network) to get your key whitelisted.

To get access to the Succinct Prover Network for OP Succinct, fill out this [form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSd2Yil8TrU54cIuohH1WvDvbxTusyqh5rsDmMAtGC85-Arshg/viewform?ref=https://succinctlabs.github.io/op-succinct/). The Succinct team will reach out to you with an RPC endpoint you can use.

## Overview

### 1) Contract deployment environment variables

In the root directory, create a file called `.env` and set the following environment variables:

| Parameter | Description |
|-----------|-------------|
| `L1_RPC` | L1 Archive Node. |
| `L1_BEACON_RPC` | L1 Beacon Node. |
| `L2_RPC` | L2 Execution Node (`op-geth`). |
| `L2_NODE_RPC` | L2 Rollup Node (`op-node`). |
| `PRIVATE_KEY` | Private key for the account that will be deploying the contract. |
| `ETHERSCAN_API_KEY` | Etherscan API key for verifying the deployed contracts. |

There are additional optional parameters that you can set in the `.env` file. See the [Advanced Parameters](../contracts/configuration.md#optional-advanced-parameters) section for more information.

### 2) Deploy the `OPSuccinctL2OutputOracle` contract

This contract is a modification of the `L2OutputOracle` contract which verifies a proof along with the proposed state root.

Then, deploy the `OPSuccinctL2OutputOracle` contract.

```shell
just deploy-oracle
```

If successful, you should see the following output:

```shell
% just deploy-oracle    
warning: op-succinct-scripts@0.1.0: fault-proof built with release-client-lto profile
warning: op-succinct-scripts@0.1.0: range built with release-client-lto profile
warning: op-succinct-scripts@0.1.0: native_host_runner built with release profile
    Finished `release` profile [optimized] target(s) in 9.00s
     Running `target/release/fetch-rollup-config --env-file .env`
[⠊] Compiling...
[⠘] Compiling 2 files with Solc 0.8.15
[⠃] Solc 0.8.15 finished in 1.72s
Compiler run successful!
Script ran successfully.

== Return ==
0: address 0xde4656D4FbeaC0c0863Ab428727e3414Fa251A4C

## Setting up 1 EVM.

==========================

Chain 11155111

Estimated gas price: 1.57226658 gwei

Estimated total gas used for script: 2746913

Estimated amount required: 0.00431887950806754 ETH

==========================
```

In these deployment logs, `0xde4656D4FbeaC0c0863Ab428727e3414Fa251A4C` is the address of the proxy for the `OPSuccinctL2OutputOracle` contract. This deployed proxy contract is used to track the verified state roots of the OP Stack chain on L1.

### 3) `op-succinct` service environment variables

To start the `op-succinct` service, add the following parameters to the `.env` file in the root directory:

| Parameter | Description |
|-----------|-------------|
| `L2OO_ADDRESS` | The address of the `OPSuccinctL2OutputOracle` contract from the previous step. |
| `NETWORK_PRIVATE_KEY` | The private key for the account that will be submitting proofs to the L1. |
| `NETWORK_RPC_URL` | The RPC endpoint for the Succinct Prover Network. The default endpoint (`https://rpc.succinct.xyz`) is not suitable for use in OP Succinct. Reach out to the Succinct team to get access with OP Succinct. |

Now, you should have the following in your `.env` file:

| Parameter | Description |
|-----------|-------------|
| `L1_RPC` | L1 Archive Node. |
| `L1_BEACON_RPC` | L1 Beacon Node. |
| `L2_RPC` | L2 Execution Node (`op-geth`). |
| `L2_NODE_RPC` | L2 Rollup Node (`op-node`). |
| `PRIVATE_KEY` | Private key for the account that will be deploying the contract and relaying proofs on-chain. |
| `ETHERSCAN_API_KEY` | Etherscan API key for verifying the deployed contracts. |
| `L2OO_ADDRESS` | The address of the `OPSuccinctL2OutputOracle` contract from the previous step. |
| `NETWORK_PRIVATE_KEY` | The private key for the account that will be submitting proofs to the L1. |
| `NETWORK_RPC_URL` | Reach out to the Succinct team to get access [here](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSd2Yil8TrU54cIuohH1WvDvbxTusyqh5rsDmMAtGC85-Arshg/viewform?ref=https://succinctlabs.github.io/op-succinct/). The default endpoint (`https://rpc.succinct.xyz`) is not suitable for use in OP Succinct. |

### 4) Start the `op-succinct` service.

We provide a Docker Compose file for running the `op-succinct` service.

#### Build the Docker Compose setup.

```shell
docker compose build
```

#### Run OP Succinct

This command launches [OP Succinct](../advanced/proposer.md) in the background. It launches two containers: one container that manages proof generation and another container that is a small fork of the original op-proposer service.

After a few minutes, you should see the OP Succinct service start to request proofs from the Succinct Prover Network. Once enough proofs have been generated, an aggregate proof will be requested and submitted to the L1.

```shell
docker compose up
```

To see the logs of the `op-succinct` service, run:

```shell
docker compose logs -f
```

To stop the `op-succinct` service, run:

```shell
docker compose stop
```

Commit message:

chore(proposer + book): docs + proposer (#426)

book/quick-start/full.md, after:

# Full OP Succinct

Running OP Succinct in full mode will generate proofs of valid OP Stack L2 outputs and submit them to the L1.

## Prerequisites

You will need a whitelisted key on the Succinct Prover Network. Follow the instructions [here](https://docs.succinct.xyz/docs/generating-proofs/prover-network) to get your key whitelisted.

To get access to the Succinct Prover Network for OP Succinct, fill out this [form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSd2Yil8TrU54cIuohH1WvDvbxTusyqh5rsDmMAtGC85-Arshg/viewform?ref=https://succinctlabs.github.io/op-succinct/). The Succinct team will reach out to you with an RPC endpoint you can use.

## Overview

### 1) Contract deployment environment variables

In the root directory, create a file called `.env` and set the following environment variables:

| Parameter | Description |
|-----------|-------------|
| `L1_RPC` | L1 Archive Node. |
| `L1_BEACON_RPC` | L1 Beacon Node. |
| `L2_RPC` | L2 Execution Node (`op-geth`). |
| `L2_NODE_RPC` | L2 Rollup Node (`op-node`). |
| `PRIVATE_KEY` | Private key for the account that will be deploying the contract. |
| `ETHERSCAN_API_KEY` | Etherscan API key for verifying the deployed contracts. |

There are additional optional parameters that you can set in the `.env` file. See the [Advanced Parameters](../contracts/configuration.md#optional-advanced-parameters) section for more information.

### 2) Deploy the `OPSuccinctL2OutputOracle` contract

This contract is a modification of the `L2OutputOracle` contract which verifies a proof along with the proposed state root.

Then, deploy the `OPSuccinctL2OutputOracle` contract.

```shell
just deploy-oracle
```

If successful, you should see the following output:

```shell
% just deploy-oracle    
warning: op-succinct-scripts@0.1.0: fault-proof built with release-client-lto profile
warning: op-succinct-scripts@0.1.0: range built with release-client-lto profile
warning: op-succinct-scripts@0.1.0: native_host_runner built with release profile
    Finished `release` profile [optimized] target(s) in 9.00s
     Running `target/release/fetch-rollup-config --env-file .env`
[⠊] Compiling...
[⠘] Compiling 2 files with Solc 0.8.15
[⠃] Solc 0.8.15 finished in 1.72s
Compiler run successful!
Script ran successfully.

== Return ==
0: address 0xde4656D4FbeaC0c0863Ab428727e3414Fa251A4C

## Setting up 1 EVM.

==========================

Chain 11155111

Estimated gas price: 1.57226658 gwei

Estimated total gas used for script: 2746913

Estimated amount required: 0.00431887950806754 ETH

==========================
```

In these deployment logs, `0xde4656D4FbeaC0c0863Ab428727e3414Fa251A4C` is the address of the proxy for the `OPSuccinctL2OutputOracle` contract. This deployed proxy contract is used to track the verified state roots of the OP Stack chain on L1.

### 3) `op-succinct` service environment variables

To start the `op-succinct` service, add the following parameters to the `.env` file in the root directory:

| Parameter | Description |
|-----------|-------------|
| `L2OO_ADDRESS` | The address of the `OPSuccinctL2OutputOracle` contract from the previous step. |
| `NETWORK_PRIVATE_KEY` | The private key for the account that will be submitting proofs to the L1. |
| `NETWORK_RPC_URL` | The RPC endpoint for the Succinct Prover Network. The default endpoint (`https://rpc.succinct.xyz`) is not suitable for use in OP Succinct. Reach out to the Succinct team to get access with OP Succinct. |
| `DATABASE_URL` | The address of a Postgres database for storing the intermediate proposer state. |
Now, you should have the following in your `.env` file:

| Parameter | Description |
|-----------|-------------|
| `L1_RPC` | L1 Archive Node. |
| `L1_BEACON_RPC` | L1 Beacon Node. |
| `L2_RPC` | L2 Execution Node (`op-geth`). |
| `L2_NODE_RPC` | L2 Rollup Node (`op-node`). |
| `PRIVATE_KEY` | Private key for the account that will be deploying the contract and relaying proofs on-chain. |
| `ETHERSCAN_API_KEY` | Etherscan API key for verifying the deployed contracts. |
| `L2OO_ADDRESS` | The address of the `OPSuccinctL2OutputOracle` contract from the previous step. |
| `NETWORK_PRIVATE_KEY` | The private key for the account that will be submitting proofs to the L1. |
| `NETWORK_RPC_URL` | Reach out to the Succinct team to get access [here](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSd2Yil8TrU54cIuohH1WvDvbxTusyqh5rsDmMAtGC85-Arshg/viewform?ref=https://succinctlabs.github.io/op-succinct/). The default endpoint (`https://rpc.succinct.xyz`) is not suitable for use in OP Succinct. |
| `DATABASE_URL` | The address of a Postgres database for storing the intermediate proposer state. |

### 4) Start the `op-succinct` service.

We provide a Docker Compose file for running the `op-succinct` service.

#### Build the Docker Compose setup.

```shell
docker compose build
```

#### Run OP Succinct

This command launches [OP Succinct](../advanced/proposer.md) in the background. It launches two containers: one container that manages proof generation and another container that is a small fork of the original op-proposer service.

After a few minutes, you should see the OP Succinct service start to request proofs from the Succinct Prover Network. Once enough proofs have been generated, an aggregate proof will be requested and submitted to the L1.

```shell
docker compose up
```

To see the logs of the `op-succinct` service, run:

```shell
docker compose logs -f
```

To stop the `op-succinct` service, run:

```shell
docker compose stop
```
