contracts/README.md, before:

## ZK Contracts

The `contracts/` directory consists of two things:

1) The `ZKL2OutputOracle.sol` contract, a diff of Optimism's `L2OutputOracle.sol` contract with the necessary changes to support ZK validity proofs.

2) The `ZKUpgrader.s.sol` script, which deploys the `ZKL2OutputOracle.sol` implementation contract, upgrades an existing `L2OutputOracleProxy` to point to it, and initializes the new contract with values from `zkconfig.json`.

## Deploy

To deploy and upgrade the contract, run the following command (where `ADMIN_PK` is the private key of the admin address for the L1 proxy contracts):

```shell
forge script script/ZKUpgrader.s.sol:ZKUpgrader  --rpc-url <L1_RPC> --private-key <ADMIN_PK> --verify --verifier etherscan --etherscan-api-key <ETHERSCAN_API_KEY> --broadcast --slow --vvvv
```

## Starting Output Root

Since the `ZKL2OutputOracle.sol` contract requires valid ZK proofs to transition the state, the contract must be seeded with an honest first value to be able to honestly prove transitions.

For existing contracts upgrading, they already have honest values in the contract. For new chains, the `ZKUpgrader` script will initialize the contract as follows:

- The `zkconfig.json` file includes a starting output block number, as well as an L2 Rollup RPC.
- The script queries the rollup node and gets the corresponding output root and timestamp for that block.
- It uses these three values to seed the contract, and all future output roots posted must be proved against this starting state.

To retrieve these values manually, use:
```
cast rpc --rpc-url <OP NODE RPC> optimism_outputAtBlock $(cast 2h <BLOCK NUMBER>) | jq '.outputRoot .blockRef.timestamp'
```

New chains will likely use a starting output block number of 0 (genesis) and prove all transitions against this state.

## vKey

The `ZKL2OutputOracle.sol` contract requires a verification key to be able to verify the validity proofs.

This key can be generated by running the following command from the root of the repo:

```shell
cargo run --bin vkey --release
```

Commit message:

feat: port `op-proposer` from Optimism fork (#78)
* move over op proposer

* wip

* wip

* forge install: forge-std

v1.9.2

* forge install: openzeppelin-contracts

v5.0.2

* forge install: optimism

v1.9.0

* forge install: sp1-contracts

v1.1.0

* wip

* forge install: sp1-contracts

v1.1.0

* wip

* forge install: sp1-contracts

v1.1.0

* add

* forge install: sp1-contracts

* wip

* add

* forge install: openzeppelin-contracts

v4.7.3

* add

* forge install: openzeppelin-contracts

v4.7.3

* create bindings

* add

* add op-proposer-go

* fix

* fix

* fix

* add

* add

* fix

* fix

* remove run docker compose

* clean up

* fix: forge fmt

* update ci

* refactor: simplify `op-proposer` logic (#79)

* wip

* add

* fix l1Client

* add

* add comments

* update

* update

* fix: precompile override

* add value

* docs

---------

Co-authored-by: Ubuntu <ubuntu@op-mainnet-archive-1.maas>

* modify

* fix

* fix

* add

* fix

* add build

---------

Co-authored-by: Ubuntu <ubuntu@op-mainnet-archive-1.maas>

contracts/README.md, after:

## ZK Contracts

The `contracts/` directory consists of two things:

1) The `ZKL2OutputOracle.sol` contract, a diff of Optimism's `L2OutputOracle.sol` contract with the necessary changes to support ZK validity proofs.

2) The `ZKUpgrader.s.sol` script, which deploys the `ZKL2OutputOracle.sol` implementation contract, upgrades an existing `L2OutputOracleProxy` to point to it, and initializes the new contract with values from `zkconfig.json`.

3) The `ZKDeployer.s.sol` script, which deploys the `ZKL2OutputOracle.sol` implementation contract, upgrades an existing `L2OutputOracleProxy` to point to it, and initializes the new contract with values from `zkconfig.json`.

## Deploy Fresh Proxy

For OP Sepolia, you can deploy a fresh proxy with the following command:

```shell
forge script script/ZKDeployer.s.sol:ZKDeployer --rpc-url <L1_RPC> --private-key <ADMIN_PK> --verify --verifier etherscan --etherscan-api-key <ETHERSCAN_API_KEY> --broadcast --slow -vvvv --ffi
```

## Upgrade Existing Proxy

To deploy and upgrade the contract for existing chains, run the following command (where `ADMIN_PK` is the private key of the admin address for the L1 proxy contracts):

```shell
forge script script/ZKUpgrader.s.sol:ZKUpgrader  --rpc-url <L1_RPC> --private-key <ADMIN_PK> --verify --verifier etherscan --etherscan-api-key <ETHERSCAN_API_KEY> --broadcast --slow --vvvv
```

## Starting Output Root

Since the `ZKL2OutputOracle.sol` contract requires valid ZK proofs to transition the state, the contract must be seeded with an honest first value to be able to honestly prove transitions.

For existing contracts upgrading, they already have honest values in the contract. For new chains, the `ZKUpgrader` script will initialize the contract as follows:

- The `zkconfig.json` file includes a starting output block number, as well as an L2 Rollup RPC.
- The script queries the rollup node and gets the corresponding output root and timestamp for that block.
- It uses these three values to seed the contract, and all future output roots posted must be proved against this starting state.

To retrieve these values manually, use:
```
cast rpc --rpc-url <OP NODE RPC> optimism_outputAtBlock $(cast 2h <BLOCK NUMBER>) | jq '.outputRoot .blockRef.timestamp'
```

New chains will likely use a starting output block number of 0 (genesis) and prove all transitions against this state.

## vKey

The `ZKL2OutputOracle.sol` contract requires a verification key to be able to verify the validity proofs.

This key can be generated by running the following command from the root of the repo:

```shell
cargo run --bin vkey --release
```
