book/fault_proofs/challenger.md, before:

# Fault Proof Challenger

The fault proof challenger is a component responsible for monitoring and challenging invalid OP-Succinct fault dispute games on the L1 chain. It continuously scans for invalid games and challenges them to maintain L2 state validity.

## Prerequisites

Before running the challenger, ensure you have:

1. Rust toolchain installed (latest stable version)
2. Access to L1 and L2 network nodes
3. The DisputeGameFactory contract deployed (See [Deploy](./deploy.md))
4. Sufficient ETH balance for:
   - Transaction fees
   - Challenger bonds (proof rewards)
5. Required environment variables properly configured (See [Configuration](#configuration))

## Overview

The challenger performs several key functions:

1. **Game Monitoring**: Continuously syncs new games from the factory, validates their output roots, and marks ones that inherit a challenger win from their parent.
2. **Game Challenging**: Submits challenges for games flagged by the sync step and supports optional malicious testing.
3. **Game Resolution**: Resolves games the challenger countered once their deadlines pass and the parent dispute has settled.
4. **Bond Management**: Tracks finalized games and claims the challenger's credit before removing them from the cache.

## Configuration

The challenger is configured through environment variables.

Create a `.env.challenger` file in the `fault-proof` directory with all required variables. This single file is used by:
- Docker Compose (for both variable substitution and runtime configuration)
- Direct binary execution (`cargo run --bin challenger` from the `fault-proof` directory; the binary automatically loads `.env.challenger`)

### Required Environment Variables

| Variable | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `L1_RPC` | L1 RPC endpoint URL |
| `L2_RPC` | L2 RPC endpoint URL |
| `FACTORY_ADDRESS` | Address of the DisputeGameFactory contract |
| `GAME_TYPE` | Type identifier for the dispute game |

Either `PRIVATE_KEY` or both `SIGNER_URL` and `SIGNER_ADDRESS` must be set for transaction signing:

| Variable | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `PRIVATE_KEY` | Private key for transaction signing (if using private key signer) |
| `SIGNER_URL` | URL of the web3 signer service (if using web3 signer) |
| `SIGNER_ADDRESS` | Address of the account managed by the web3 signer (if using web3 signer) |

### Optional Environment Variables

| Variable | Description | Default Value |
|----------|-------------|---------------|
| `FETCH_INTERVAL` | Polling interval in seconds | `30` |
| `CHALLENGER_METRICS_PORT` | The port to expose metrics on. Update prometheus.yml to use this port, if using docker compose. | `9001` |
| `MALICIOUS_CHALLENGE_PERCENTAGE` | Percentage (0.0-100.0) of valid games to challenge for testing defense mechanisms | `0.0` |

```env
# Required Configuration
L1_RPC=                  # L1 RPC endpoint URL
L2_RPC=                  # L2 RPC endpoint URL
FACTORY_ADDRESS=         # Address of the DisputeGameFactory contract
GAME_TYPE=               # Type identifier for the dispute game
PRIVATE_KEY=             # Private key for transaction signing

# Optional Configuration
FETCH_INTERVAL=30                     # Polling interval in seconds
CHALLENGER_METRICS_PORT=9001          # The port to expose metrics on

# Testing Configuration (Optional)
MALICIOUS_CHALLENGE_PERCENTAGE=0.0    # Percentage of valid games to challenge for testing (0.0 = disabled)
```

## Running

To run the challenger from the `fault-proof` directory:
```bash
# Uses .env.challenger by default
cargo run --bin challenger

# Or specify a custom environment file
cargo run --bin challenger -- --env-file custom.env
```

The challenger will run indefinitely, monitoring for invalid games and challenging them as needed.

## Testing Defense Mechanisms

The challenger supports **malicious challenging** of valid games for defense mechanisms testing purposes.

### Configuration

Set `MALICIOUS_CHALLENGE_PERCENTAGE` to enable malicious challenging:

```bash
# Production mode (default) - only challenge invalid games
MALICIOUS_CHALLENGE_PERCENTAGE=0.0

# Testing mode - challenge all valid games
MALICIOUS_CHALLENGE_PERCENTAGE=100.0

# Fine-grained testing - challenge 0.1% of valid games
MALICIOUS_CHALLENGE_PERCENTAGE=0.1

# Mixed testing - challenge 25.5% of valid games
MALICIOUS_CHALLENGE_PERCENTAGE=25.5
```

### Behavior

When malicious challenging is enabled:

1. **Priority 1**: Challenge invalid games (honest challenger behavior)
2. **Priority 2**: Challenge valid games at the configured percentage (defense mechanisms testing behavior); the percentage acts as a per-iteration probability gate.

The challenger will always prioritize challenging invalid games first, then optionally challenge valid games based on the configured percentage.

### Logging

The challenger relies on structured `tracing` logs:
- Honest challenges are logged as `Game challenged successfully` within the `[[Challenging]]` span.
- Malicious attempts emit `\x1b[31m[MALICIOUS CHALLENGE]\x1b[0m` so they stand out in the logs.

## Features

### Game Monitoring
- Incrementally pulls new games from the factory using an on-chain index cursor
- Checks game validity against the L2 state commitment
- Filters to the configured OP Succinct fault dispute game type that was respected at creation time
- Marks games for challenging, resolution, or bond claiming based on proposal status, parent outcomes, and deadlines

### Game Challenging
- Submits challenges for games flagged by the sync step
- Challenges games that are in progress and either invalid or the parent is challenger wins
- Supports malicious challenging of valid games when enabled

### Game Resolution
The challenger:
- Tracks only games it countered
- Resolves games after their deadline once the parent dispute is resolved and it is own game

### Bond Claiming
- Flags challenger-win games once the anchor registry marks them finalized and there is credit to claim
- Claims credit for the challenger's address and removes games from the cache after claiming credit

## Architecture

The challenger is built around the `OPSuccinctChallenger` struct which manages:
- Configuration state
- Wallet management for transactions
- Game challenging and resolution logic
- Chain monitoring and interval management

Key components:
- `ChallengerConfig`: Handles environment-based configuration
- `sync_state`: Keeps the in-memory cache in sync with on-chain state, marking games for challenge, resolution, or bond claims
- `handle_game_challenging`: Submits challenge transactions for games flagged by the sync step and supports malicious testing
- `handle_game_resolution`: Resolves flagged games once they are eligible based on deadlines, parent outcomes and whether it is own game
- `handle_bond_claiming`: Claims challenger credit from finalized games and trims settled entries from the cache
- `run`: Main loop that orchestrates state syncing, challenging, resolution, and bond claiming at the configured interval while isolating task failures

## Error Handling

The challenger includes robust error handling for:
- RPC connection issues
- Transaction failures
- Contract interaction errors
- Invalid configurations

Errors are logged with appropriate context to aid in debugging.

## Development

When developing or modifying the challenger:
1. Ensure all environment variables are properly set
2. Test with a local L1/L2 setup first
3. Monitor logs for proper operation
4. Test challenging and resolution separately
5. Verify proper handling of edge cases
6. Test with various game states and conditions

Commit message:

docs: add ANCHOR_STATE_REGISTRY_ADDRESS

book/fault_proofs/challenger.md, after:

# Fault Proof Challenger

The fault proof challenger is a component responsible for monitoring and challenging invalid OP-Succinct fault dispute games on the L1 chain. It continuously scans for invalid games and challenges them to maintain L2 state validity.

## Prerequisites

Before running the challenger, ensure you have:

1. Rust toolchain installed (latest stable version)
2. Access to L1 and L2 network nodes
3. The DisputeGameFactory contract deployed (See [Deploy](./deploy.md))
4. Sufficient ETH balance for:
   - Transaction fees
   - Challenger bonds (proof rewards)
5. Required environment variables properly configured (See [Configuration](#configuration))

## Overview

The challenger performs several key functions:

1. **Game Monitoring**: Continuously syncs new games from the factory, validates their output roots, and marks ones that inherit a challenger win from their parent.
2. **Game Challenging**: Submits challenges for games flagged by the sync step and supports optional malicious testing.
3. **Game Resolution**: Resolves games the challenger countered once their deadlines pass and the parent dispute has settled.
4. **Bond Management**: Tracks finalized games and claims the challenger's credit before removing them from the cache.

## Configuration

The challenger is configured through environment variables.

Create a `.env.challenger` file in the `fault-proof` directory with all required variables. This single file is used by:
- Docker Compose (for both variable substitution and runtime configuration)
- Direct binary execution (`cargo run --bin challenger` from the `fault-proof` directory; the binary automatically loads `.env.challenger`)

### Required Environment Variables

| Variable | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `L1_RPC` | L1 RPC endpoint URL |
| `L2_RPC` | L2 RPC endpoint URL |
| `ANCHOR_STATE_REGISTRY_ADDRESS` | Address of the AnchorStateRegistry contract |
| `FACTORY_ADDRESS` | Address of the DisputeGameFactory contract |
| `GAME_TYPE` | Type identifier for the dispute game |

Either `PRIVATE_KEY` or both `SIGNER_URL` and `SIGNER_ADDRESS` must be set for transaction signing:

| Variable | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `PRIVATE_KEY` | Private key for transaction signing (if using private key signer) |
| `SIGNER_URL` | URL of the web3 signer service (if using web3 signer) |
| `SIGNER_ADDRESS` | Address of the account managed by the web3 signer (if using web3 signer) |

### Optional Environment Variables

| Variable | Description | Default Value |
|----------|-------------|---------------|
| `FETCH_INTERVAL` | Polling interval in seconds | `30` |
| `CHALLENGER_METRICS_PORT` | The port to expose metrics on. Update prometheus.yml to use this port, if using docker compose. | `9001` |
| `MALICIOUS_CHALLENGE_PERCENTAGE` | Percentage (0.0-100.0) of valid games to challenge for testing defense mechanisms | `0.0` |

```env
# Required Configuration
L1_RPC=                              # L1 RPC endpoint URL
L2_RPC=                              # L2 RPC endpoint URL
ANCHOR_STATE_REGISTRY_ADDRESS=       # Address of the AnchorStateRegistry contract
FACTORY_ADDRESS=                     # Address of the DisputeGameFactory contract
GAME_TYPE=                           # Type identifier for the dispute game
PRIVATE_KEY=                         # Private key for transaction signing

# Optional Configuration
FETCH_INTERVAL=30                     # Polling interval in seconds
CHALLENGER_METRICS_PORT=9001          # The port to expose metrics on

# Testing Configuration (Optional)
MALICIOUS_CHALLENGE_PERCENTAGE=0.0    # Percentage of valid games to challenge for testing (0.0 = disabled)
```

## Running

To run the challenger from the `fault-proof` directory:
```bash
# Uses .env.challenger by default
cargo run --bin challenger

# Or specify a custom environment file
cargo run --bin challenger -- --env-file custom.env
```

The challenger will run indefinitely, monitoring for invalid games and challenging them as needed.

## Testing Defense Mechanisms

The challenger supports **malicious challenging** of valid games for defense mechanisms testing purposes.

### Configuration

Set `MALICIOUS_CHALLENGE_PERCENTAGE` to enable malicious challenging:

```bash
# Production mode (default) - only challenge invalid games
MALICIOUS_CHALLENGE_PERCENTAGE=0.0

# Testing mode - challenge all valid games
MALICIOUS_CHALLENGE_PERCENTAGE=100.0

# Fine-grained testing - challenge 0.1% of valid games
MALICIOUS_CHALLENGE_PERCENTAGE=0.1

# Mixed testing - challenge 25.5% of valid games
MALICIOUS_CHALLENGE_PERCENTAGE=25.5
```

### Behavior

When malicious challenging is enabled:

1. **Priority 1**: Challenge invalid games (honest challenger behavior)
2. **Priority 2**: Challenge valid games at the configured percentage (defense mechanisms testing behavior); the percentage acts as a per-iteration probability gate.

The challenger will always prioritize challenging invalid games first, then optionally challenge valid games based on the configured percentage.

### Logging

The challenger relies on structured `tracing` logs:
- Honest challenges are logged as `Game challenged successfully` within the `[[Challenging]]` span.
- Malicious attempts emit `\x1b[31m[MALICIOUS CHALLENGE]\x1b[0m` so they stand out in the logs.

## Features

### Game Monitoring
- Incrementally pulls new games from the factory using an on-chain index cursor
- Checks game validity against the L2 state commitment
- Filters to the configured OP Succinct fault dispute game type that was respected at creation time
- Marks games for challenging, resolution, or bond claiming based on proposal status, parent outcomes, and deadlines

### Game Challenging
- Submits challenges for games flagged by the sync step
- Challenges games that are in progress and either invalid or the parent is challenger wins
- Supports malicious challenging of valid games when enabled

### Game Resolution
The challenger:
- Tracks only games it countered
- Resolves games after their deadline once the parent dispute is resolved and it is own game

### Bond Claiming
- Flags challenger-win games once the anchor registry marks them finalized and there is credit to claim
- Claims credit for the challenger's address and removes games from the cache after claiming credit

## Architecture

The challenger is built around the `OPSuccinctChallenger` struct which manages:
- Configuration state
- Wallet management for transactions
- Game challenging and resolution logic
- Chain monitoring and interval management

Key components:
- `ChallengerConfig`: Handles environment-based configuration
- `sync_state`: Keeps the in-memory cache in sync with on-chain state, marking games for challenge, resolution, or bond claims
- `handle_game_challenging`: Submits challenge transactions for games flagged by the sync step and supports malicious testing
- `handle_game_resolution`: Resolves flagged games once they are eligible based on deadlines, parent outcomes and whether it is own game
- `handle_bond_claiming`: Claims challenger credit from finalized games and trims settled entries from the cache
- `run`: Main loop that orchestrates state syncing, challenging, resolution, and bond claiming at the configured interval while isolating task failures

## Error Handling

The challenger includes robust error handling for:
- RPC connection issues
- Transaction failures
- Contract interaction errors
- Invalid configurations

Errors are logged with appropriate context to aid in debugging.

## Development

When developing or modifying the challenger:
1. Ensure all environment variables are properly set
2. Test with a local L1/L2 setup first
3. Monitor logs for proper operation
4. Test challenging and resolution separately
5. Verify proper handling of edge cases
6. Test with various game states and conditions
