book/fault_proofs/deploy.md, before:

# Deploying OP Succinct Fault Dispute Game

This guide explains how to deploy the OP Succinct Fault Dispute Game contracts using the `DeployOPSuccinctFDG.s.sol` script.

## Overview

The deployment script performs the following actions:
1. Deploys the `DisputeGameFactory` implementation and proxy.
2. Deploys the `AnchorStateRegistry` implementation and proxy.
3. Deploys a mock `OptimismPortal2` for testing.
4. Deploys the `AccessManager` and configures it for permissionless games.
5. Deploys either a mock SP1 verifier for testing or uses a provided verifier address.
6. Deploys the `OPSuccinctFaultDisputeGame` implementation.
7. Configures the factory with initial bond and game implementation.

## Prerequisites

- [Foundry](https://book.getfoundry.sh/getting-started/installation) installed.
- Access to an Ethereum node (local or network).
- Environment variables properly configured.

## Configuration

Create a `.env` file in the contracts directory with the following variables:

### Required Environment Variables

| Variable | Description | Example |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `GAME_TYPE` | Unique identifier for the game type (uint32). | `42` |
| `DISPUTE_GAME_FINALITY_DELAY_SECONDS` | Delay before finalizing dispute games. | `604800` for 7 days |
| `MAX_CHALLENGE_DURATION` | Maximum duration for challenges in seconds. | `604800` for 7 days |
| `MAX_PROVE_DURATION` | Maximum duration for proving in seconds. | `86400` for 1 day |
| `STARTING_L2_BLOCK_NUMBER` | Starting L2 block number in decimal. | `786000` |
| `STARTING_ROOT` | Starting anchor root in hex. | `0x...` |

#### Getting the Starting Root

You can get the starting root for the `STARTING_L2_BLOCK_NUMBER` from the L2 node RPC using this command:

```bash
# Convert block number to hex and remove '0x' prefix
BLOCK_HEX=$(cast --to-hex <STARTING_L2_BLOCK_NUMBER> | sed 's/0x//')

# Construct the JSON RPC request
JSON_DATA='{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "method": "optimism_outputAtBlock",
    "params": ["0x'$BLOCK_HEX'"],
    "id": 1
}'

# Make the RPC call and extract the output root
starting_root=$(curl -s -X POST \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    <L2_NODE_RPC> \
    --data "$JSON_DATA" \
    | jq -r '.result.outputRoot')

# Display the result
printf "\nStarting root: %s\n" "$starting_root"
```

### SP1 Verifier Configuration
For testing, set:
```bash
USE_SP1_MOCK_VERIFIER=true
```

For production, set all of these:

| Variable | Description | Example |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `VERIFIER_ADDRESS` | Address of the SP1 verifier ([see contract addresses](https://docs.succinct.xyz/docs/sp1/verification/onchain/contract-addresses)) | `0x...` |
| `ROLLUP_CONFIG_HASH` | Hash of the rollup configuration | `0x...` |
| `AGGREGATION_VKEY` | Verification key for aggregation | `0x...` |
| `RANGE_VKEY_COMMITMENT` | Commitment to range verification key | `0x...` |

## Deployment

1. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   forge install
   ```

2. Change directory to contracts:
   ```bash
   cd contracts
   ```

3. Build the contracts:
   ```bash
   forge build
   ```

4. Run the deployment script:
   ```bash
   forge script script/fp/DeployOPSuccinctFDG.s.sol --broadcast --rpc-url <RPC_URL> --private-key <PRIVATE_KEY>
   ```

## Contract Parameters

The deployment script deploys the contract with the following parameters:

- **Initial Bond**: 0.01 ETH by default (configurable via `INITIAL_BOND` in wei, so 10000000000000000 wei for 0.01 ETH).
- **Proof Reward**: 0.01 ETH by default (configurable via `PROOF_REWARD` in wei, so 10000000000000000 wei for 0.01 ETH).
- **Starting Anchor Root**: Genesis configuration with block number 0.
- **Access Control**: Permissionless (address(0) can propose and challenge).

## Post-Deployment

After deployment, the script will output the addresses of:
- Factory Proxy.
- Game Implementation.
- SP1 Verifier.
- Portal2.
- Anchor State Registry.
- Access Manager.

Save these addresses for future reference and configuration of other components.

## Security Considerations

- The deployer address will be set as the factory owner.
- Initial parameters are set for testing - adjust for production.
- The mock SP1 verifier (`USE_SP1_MOCK_VERIFIER=true`) should ONLY be used for testing.
- For production deployments:
  - Provide a valid `VERIFIER_ADDRESS`.
  - Configure proper `ROLLUP_CONFIG_HASH`, `AGGREGATION_VKEY`, and `RANGE_VKEY_COMMITMENT`.
  - Review and adjust finality delay and duration parameters.
  - Consider access control settings.

## Troubleshooting

Common issues and solutions:

1. **Compilation Errors**:
   - Ensure Foundry is up to date (run `foundryup`).
   - Run `forge clean && forge build`.

2. **Deployment Failures**:
   - Check RPC connection.
   - Verify sufficient ETH balance.
   - Confirm environment variables are set correctly.

## Next Steps

After deployment:

1. Update the proposer configuration with the factory address.
2. Configure the challenger with the game parameters.
3. Test the deployment with a sample game.
4. Monitor initial games for correct behavior.
5. For production: Replace mock OptimismPortal2 with the real implementation.

Commit message:

docs: update docs for zkfp (#401)
* docs: update docs for zkfp

* docs: add missing challenger.md to the sumamry

* docs: add link to getting the starting root

* docs: fix wrong pwd when forge install

* docs: add guide how to get rollup config hash and vkeys

* docs: add missing env vars for fast finality mode

* apply comment

book/fault_proofs/deploy.md, after:

# Deploying OP Succinct Fault Dispute Game

This guide explains how to deploy the OP Succinct Fault Dispute Game contracts using the `DeployOPSuccinctFDG.s.sol` script.

## Overview

The deployment script performs the following actions:
1. Deploys the `DisputeGameFactory` implementation and proxy.
2. Deploys the `AnchorStateRegistry` implementation and proxy.
3. Deploys a mock `OptimismPortal2` for testing.
4. Deploys the `AccessManager` and configures it for permissionless games.
5. Deploys either a mock SP1 verifier for testing or uses a provided verifier address.
6. Deploys the `OPSuccinctFaultDisputeGame` implementation.
7. Configures the factory with initial bond and game implementation.

## Prerequisites

- [Foundry](https://book.getfoundry.sh/getting-started/installation) installed.
- Access to an Ethereum node (local or network).
- Environment variables properly configured.

## Configuration

Create a `.env` file in the contracts directory with the following variables:

### Required Environment Variables

| Variable | Description | Example |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `GAME_TYPE` | Unique identifier for the game type (uint32). | `42` |
| `DISPUTE_GAME_FINALITY_DELAY_SECONDS` | Delay before finalizing dispute games. | `604800` for 7 days |
| `MAX_CHALLENGE_DURATION` | Maximum duration for challenges in seconds. | `604800` for 7 days |
| `MAX_PROVE_DURATION` | Maximum duration for proving in seconds. | `86400` for 1 day |
| `STARTING_L2_BLOCK_NUMBER` | Starting L2 block number in decimal. | `786000` |
| `STARTING_ROOT` | Starting anchor root in hex. | `0x...` |

#### Getting the Starting Root

You can get the starting root for the `STARTING_L2_BLOCK_NUMBER` from the L2 node RPC using this command:

```bash
# Convert block number to hex and remove '0x' prefix
BLOCK_HEX=$(cast --to-hex <STARTING_L2_BLOCK_NUMBER> | sed 's/0x//')

# Construct the JSON RPC request
JSON_DATA='{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "method": "optimism_outputAtBlock",
    "params": ["0x'$BLOCK_HEX'"],
    "id": 1
}'

# Make the RPC call and extract the output root
starting_root=$(curl -s -X POST \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    <L2_NODE_RPC> \
    --data "$JSON_DATA" \
    | jq -r '.result.outputRoot')

# Display the result
printf "\nStarting root: %s\n" "$starting_root"
```

### SP1 Verifier Configuration
For testing, set:
```bash
USE_SP1_MOCK_VERIFIER=true
```

For production, remove the `USE_SP1_MOCK_VERIFIER` environment variable and set all of these:

| Variable | Description | Example |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `VERIFIER_ADDRESS` | Address of the SP1 verifier ([see contract addresses](https://docs.succinct.xyz/docs/sp1/verification/onchain/contract-addresses)) | `0x...` |
| `ROLLUP_CONFIG_HASH` | Hash of the rollup configuration | `0x...` |
| `AGGREGATION_VKEY` | Verification key for aggregation | `0x...` |
| `RANGE_VKEY_COMMITMENT` | Commitment to range verification key | `0x...` |

#### Getting the Rollup Config Hash, Aggregation VKEY, and Range VKEY Commitment

First, create a `.env` file in the root directory with the following variables:
```bash
L1_RPC=<L1_RPC_URL>
L1_BEACON_RPC=<L1_BEACON_RPC_URL>
L2_RPC=<L2_RPC_URL>
L2_NODE_RPC=<L2_NODE_RPC_URL>
```

Then run the following command to get the Rollup Config Hash:
```bash
cargo run --bin fetch-rollup-config-hash
```

You can get the aggregation program verification key, and range program verification key commitment by running the following command:

```bash
cargo run --bin vkey --release
```

## Deployment

1. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   forge install
   ```

2. Change directory to contracts:
   ```bash
   cd contracts
   ```

3. Build the contracts:
   ```bash
   forge build
   ```

4. Run the deployment script:
   ```bash
   forge script script/fp/DeployOPSuccinctFDG.s.sol --broadcast --rpc-url <RPC_URL> --private-key <PRIVATE_KEY>
   ```

## Contract Parameters

The deployment script deploys the contract with the following parameters:

- **Initial Bond**: 0.01 ETH by default (configurable via `INITIAL_BOND` in wei, so 10000000000000000 wei for 0.01 ETH).
- **Proof Reward**: 0.01 ETH by default (configurable via `PROOF_REWARD` in wei, so 10000000000000000 wei for 0.01 ETH).
- **Starting Anchor Root**: Genesis configuration with block number 0.
- **Access Control**: Permissionless (address(0) can propose and challenge).

## Post-Deployment

After deployment, the script will output the addresses of:
- Factory Proxy.
- Game Implementation.
- SP1 Verifier.
- Portal2.
- Anchor State Registry.
- Access Manager.

Save these addresses for future reference and configuration of other components.

## Security Considerations

- The deployer address will be set as the factory owner.
- Initial parameters are set for testing - adjust for production.
- The mock SP1 verifier (`USE_SP1_MOCK_VERIFIER=true`) should ONLY be used for testing.
- For production deployments:
  - Provide a valid `VERIFIER_ADDRESS`.
  - Configure proper `ROLLUP_CONFIG_HASH`, `AGGREGATION_VKEY`, and `RANGE_VKEY_COMMITMENT`.
  - Review and adjust finality delay and duration parameters.
  - Consider access control settings.

## Troubleshooting

Common issues and solutions:

1. **Compilation Errors**:
   - Ensure Foundry is up to date (run `foundryup`).
   - Run `forge clean && forge build`.

2. **Deployment Failures**:
   - Check RPC connection.
   - Verify sufficient ETH balance.
   - Confirm environment variables are set correctly.

## Next Steps

After deployment:

1. Update the proposer configuration with the factory address.
2. Configure the challenger with the game parameters.
3. Test the deployment with a sample game.
4. Monitor initial games for correct behavior.
5. For production: Replace mock OptimismPortal2 with the real implementation.
