book/fault_proofs/docker.md, before:

# OP Succinct Fault Proof Docker Setup

This guide explains how to run the OP Succinct fault proof system using Docker Compose.

## Prerequisites

- Docker and Docker Compose installed
- L1 and L2 RPC endpoints available
- Private key with sufficient ETH for bonds and transaction fees
- Deployed DisputeGameFactory contract address (see [Deploy Guide](./deploy.md))

## Docker Setup Overview

The fault proof system consists of two main components:
- **Proposer**: Creates and defends claims about L2 state. See `fault_proof/Dockerfile.proposer`.
- **Challenger**: Monitors and challenges invalid claims. See `fault_proof/Dockerfile.challenger`.

## Quick Start

1. Create environment files under the `fault_proof` directory for both components:

### Proposer Configuration (.env.proposer)

```
# Required Configuration
L1_RPC=                  # L1 RPC endpoint URL
L2_RPC=                  # L2 RPC endpoint URL
FACTORY_ADDRESS=         # Address of the DisputeGameFactory contract
GAME_TYPE=               # Type identifier for the dispute game
PRIVATE_KEY=             # Private key for transaction signing
NETWORK_PRIVATE_KEY=0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000001

# Optional Configuration
FAST_FINALITY_MODE=false # Whether to use fast finality mode
PROPOSAL_INTERVAL_IN_BLOCKS=1800    # Number of L2 blocks between proposals
FETCH_INTERVAL=30                   # Polling interval in seconds
ENABLE_GAME_RESOLUTION=true         # Whether to enable automatic game resolution
MAX_GAMES_TO_CHECK_FOR_RESOLUTION=100  # Maximum number of games to check for resolution
MAX_GAMES_TO_CHECK_FOR_DEFENSE=100    # Maximum number of recent games to check for defense
```

### Challenger Configuration (.env.challenger)

```
# Required Configuration
L1_RPC=                  # L1 RPC endpoint URL
L2_RPC=                  # L2 RPC endpoint URL
FACTORY_ADDRESS=         # Address of the DisputeGameFactory contract
GAME_TYPE=               # Type identifier for the dispute game
PRIVATE_KEY=             # Private key for transaction signing

# Optional Configuration
FETCH_INTERVAL=30        # Polling interval in seconds
MAX_GAMES_TO_CHECK_FOR_CHALLENGE=100  # Maximum number of games to check for challenges
ENABLE_GAME_RESOLUTION=true           # Whether to enable automatic game resolution
MAX_GAMES_TO_CHECK_FOR_RESOLUTION=100 # Maximum number of games to check for resolution
```

2. Start the services:

```bash
# Navigate to the fault_proof directory
cd fault_proof

# Start both proposer and challenger
docker compose up -d

# Or start them individually
docker compose up -d proposer
docker compose up -d challenger
```

## Monitoring

View logs for the services:

```bash
# View logs for both services
docker compose logs -f

# View logs for a specific service
docker logs -f op-succinct-fp-proposer
docker logs -f op-succinct-fp-challenger
```

## Stopping the Services

```bash
docker compose down
```

## Advanced Configuration

For fast finality mode, add these to your `.env.proposer`:

```
FAST_FINALITY_MODE=true
NETWORK_PRIVATE_KEY=     # Private key for the Succinct Prover Network
L1_BEACON_RPC=           # L1 Beacon RPC endpoint URL
L2_NODE_RPC=             # L2 Node RPC endpoint URL
```

To get a whitelisted key on the Succinct Prover Network for OP Succinct, fill out this [form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSd2Yil8TrU54cIuohH1WvDvbxTusyqh5rsDmMAtGC85-Arshg/viewform?ref=https://succinctlabs.github.io/op-succinct/).

## Building Images Manually

If you need to build the Docker images manually:

```bash
# Navigate to the fault_proof directory
cd fault_proof

# Build the proposer image
docker build -f Dockerfile.proposer -t op-succinct-fp-proposer:latest ..

# Build the challenger image
docker build -f Dockerfile.challenger -t op-succinct-fp-challenger:latest ..
```

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter issues:

1. Check the logs for error messages
2. Verify your RPC endpoints are accessible
3. Ensure your private key has sufficient ETH
4. Confirm the factory address and contract deployment environment variables were set as expected
5. Check that the Docker images built successfully with `docker images`

For more detailed information, refer to the documentation:
- [Proposer Documentation](./proposer.md)
- [Challenger Documentation](./challenger.md)
- [Deployment Guide](./deploy.md)
- [Quick Start Guide](./quick_start.md)

Commit message:

feat: add fp metrics (#419)
* feat: add fp metrics

* refac: use `strum`

* feat: add `MetricsGauge` trait

* chore: cleanup

* chore(fault-proof): add legends to proposer stats

book/fault_proofs/docker.md, after:

# OP Succinct Fault Proof Docker Setup

This guide explains how to run the OP Succinct fault proof system using Docker Compose.

## Prerequisites

- Docker and Docker Compose installed
- L1 and L2 RPC endpoints available
- Private key with sufficient ETH for bonds and transaction fees
- Deployed DisputeGameFactory contract address (see [Deploy Guide](./deploy.md))

## Docker Setup Overview

The fault proof system consists of two main components:
- **Proposer**: Creates and defends claims about L2 state. See `fault_proof/Dockerfile.proposer`.
- **Challenger**: Monitors and challenges invalid claims. See `fault_proof/Dockerfile.challenger`.

## Quick Start

1. Create environment files under the `fault_proof` directory for both components:

### Proposer Configuration (.env.proposer)

```
# Required Configuration
L1_RPC=                  # L1 RPC endpoint URL
L2_RPC=                  # L2 RPC endpoint URL
FACTORY_ADDRESS=         # Address of the DisputeGameFactory contract
GAME_TYPE=               # Type identifier for the dispute game
PRIVATE_KEY=             # Private key for transaction signing
NETWORK_PRIVATE_KEY=0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000001

# Optional Configuration
FAST_FINALITY_MODE=false # Whether to use fast finality mode
PROPOSAL_INTERVAL_IN_BLOCKS=1800    # Number of L2 blocks between proposals
FETCH_INTERVAL=30                   # Polling interval in seconds
ENABLE_GAME_RESOLUTION=true         # Whether to enable automatic game resolution
MAX_GAMES_TO_CHECK_FOR_RESOLUTION=100  # Maximum number of games to check for resolution
MAX_GAMES_TO_CHECK_FOR_DEFENSE=100    # Maximum number of recent games to check for defense
```

### Challenger Configuration (.env.challenger)

```
# Required Configuration
L1_RPC=                  # L1 RPC endpoint URL
L2_RPC=                  # L2 RPC endpoint URL
FACTORY_ADDRESS=         # Address of the DisputeGameFactory contract
GAME_TYPE=               # Type identifier for the dispute game
PRIVATE_KEY=             # Private key for transaction signing

# Optional Configuration
FETCH_INTERVAL=30        # Polling interval in seconds
MAX_GAMES_TO_CHECK_FOR_CHALLENGE=100  # Maximum number of games to check for challenges
ENABLE_GAME_RESOLUTION=true           # Whether to enable automatic game resolution
MAX_GAMES_TO_CHECK_FOR_RESOLUTION=100 # Maximum number of games to check for resolution
```

2. Start the services:

```bash
# Navigate to the fault_proof directory
cd fault_proof

# Start both proposer and challenger
docker compose up -d

# Or start them individually
docker compose up -d proposer
docker compose up -d challenger
```

## Monitoring

The fault proof system includes a Grafana dashboard for monitoring the proposer and challenger.
To access the dashboard, open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:3000`. Use the following credentials:
- Username: `admin`
- Password: `admin`

If the default port 9090 and 3000 for Prometheus and Grafana are already in use, you can change the port by setting the `FP_PROMETHEUS_PORT` and `FP_GRAFANA_PORT` environment variables in fault-proof/.env file.

View logs for the services:

```bash
# View logs for both services
docker compose logs -f

# View logs for a specific service
docker logs -f op-succinct-fp-proposer
docker logs -f op-succinct-fp-challenger
```

## Stopping the Services

```bash
docker compose down
```

## Advanced Configuration

For fast finality mode, add these to your `.env.proposer`:

```
FAST_FINALITY_MODE=true
NETWORK_PRIVATE_KEY=     # Private key for the Succinct Prover Network
L1_BEACON_RPC=           # L1 Beacon RPC endpoint URL
L2_NODE_RPC=             # L2 Node RPC endpoint URL
```

To get a whitelisted key on the Succinct Prover Network for OP Succinct, fill out this [form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSd2Yil8TrU54cIuohH1WvDvbxTusyqh5rsDmMAtGC85-Arshg/viewform?ref=https://succinctlabs.github.io/op-succinct/).

## Building Images Manually

If you need to build the Docker images manually:

```bash
# Navigate to the fault_proof directory
cd fault_proof

# Build the proposer image
docker build -f Dockerfile.proposer -t op-succinct-fp-proposer:latest ..

# Build the challenger image
docker build -f Dockerfile.challenger -t op-succinct-fp-challenger:latest ..
```

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter issues:

1. Check the logs for error messages
2. Verify your RPC endpoints are accessible
3. Ensure your private key has sufficient ETH
4. Confirm the factory address and contract deployment environment variables were set as expected
5. Check that the Docker images built successfully with `docker images`

For more detailed information, refer to the documentation:
- [Proposer Documentation](./proposer.md)
- [Challenger Documentation](./challenger.md)
- [Deployment Guide](./deploy.md)
- [Quick Start Guide](./quick_start.md)
