book/fault_proofs/fault_proof_architecture.md, before:

# Architecture

OP Succinct is also offered in "fault proof" mode, which is a good solution for chains that wish to have faster finality while not paying the ZK proving costs for every single block. The exact same OP Succinct ZK program is used for this mode--the only difference is the smart contrcts deployed onchain that integrate with OP Stack's `DisputeGameFactory` contract.

## Overview

We assume that the reader has a solid understanding of the OP Stack's `DisputeGameFactory` and `IDisputeGame` interface. Documentation can be found [here](https://specs.optimism.io/fault-proof/stage-one/dispute-game-interface.html). We implement the `IDisputeGame` interface with a ZK-enabled fault proof (using the OP Succinct SP1 program) instead of the standard interactive bisection game that the vanilla OP Stack uses.

## Core Concepts

1. **Proposals**: Each proposal represents a claimed state transition from a start L2 block to an end L2 block with a `startL2OutputRoot` and a `claimedL2OutputRoot` where the output root is a commitment to the entirety of L2 state.
2. **Challenges**: Participants can challenge proposals they believe are invalid.
3. **Proofs**: ZK proofs that verify the correctness of state transitions contained in proposals, anchored against an L1 block hash.
4. **Resolution**: Process of determining whether a proposal is valid or not.

## Dispute Game Implementation

Proposing new state roots goes through the regular flow of the `DisputeGameFactory` to the `OPSuccinctFaultDisputeGame` contract that implements the `IDisputeGame` interface. Each proposal contains a link to a previous parent proposal (unless it is the first proposal after initialization, in which case it stores the parent index as `uint32.max`), and includes a `l2BlockNumber` and claimed `l2OutputRoot`.

Once a proposal is published and a `OPSuccinctFaultDisputeGame` created, the dispute game can be in one of several states:

- **Unchallenged**: The initial state of a new proposal
- **UnchallengedAndValidProofProvided**: A proposal that has been proven valid with a verified proof
- **Challenged**: A proposal that has been challenged but not yet proven
- **ChallengedAndValidProofProvided**: A challenged proposal that has been proven valid with a verified proof
- **Resolved**: The final state after resolution, either `GameStatus.CHALLENGER_WINS` or `GameStatus.DEFENDER_WINS`.

Note that "challenging" a proposal does not require a proof--as we want challenges to be able to be submitted quickly, without waiting for proof generation delay. Once a challenge is submitted, then the proposal's "timeout" is set to `MAX_PROVE_DURATION` parameter that allows for an extended amount of time to generate a proof to prove that the original proposal is correct. If a proof of validity is not submitted by the deadline, then the proposal is assumed to be invalid and the challenger wins. If a valid proof is submitted by the deadline, then the original proposer wins the dispute. Note that if a parent game is resolved in favor of a challenger wining, then any child game will also be considered invalid.

**Illustrative Example**

```mermaid
graph TB
    A[Genesis State
    Block: 0
    Root: 0x123] --> |Parent| B[Proposal 1
    Block: 1000
    Root: 0xabc
    State: DEFENDER_WON]
    B --> |Parent| C[Proposal 2A
    Block: 2000
    Root: 0xdef
    State: CHALLENGER_WON]
    B --> |Parent| D[Proposal 2B
    Block: 2000
    Root: 0xff1
    State: Unchallenged]
    C --> |Parent| E[Proposal 3A
    Block: 3000
    Root: 0xbee
    State: Unchallenged]
    D --> |Parent| F[Proposal 3B
    Block: 3000
    Root: 0xfab
    State: ChallengedAndValidProofProvided]

    classDef genesis fill:#d4edda,stroke:#155724
    classDef defender_won fill:#28a745,stroke:#1e7e34,color:#fff
    classDef challenger_won fill:#dc3545,stroke:#bd2130,color:#fff
    classDef unchallenged fill:#e2e3e5,stroke:#383d41
    classDef proven fill:#17a2b8,stroke:#138496,color:#fff

    class A genesis
    class B defender_won
    class C challenger_won
    class D,E unchallenged
    class F proven
```

In this example, Proposal 3A would always resolve to `CHALLENGER_WON`, as its parent 2A has `CHALLENGER_WON`. Proposal 3B would resolve to `DEFENDER_WON` if and only if its parent 2B successfully is unchallenged past its deadline and the final status is `DEFENDER_WON`.

## Contract Description

### Immutable Parameters

- `MAX_CHALLENGE_DURATION`: Time window during which a proposal can be challenged
- `MAX_PROVE_DURATION`: Time allowed for proving a challenge
- `GAME_TYPE`: The type of the game, which is set in the `DisputeGameFactory` contract
- `DISPUTE_GAME_FACTORY`: The factory contract that creates this game
- `SP1_VERIFIER`: The verifier contract that verifies the SP1 proof
- `ROLLUP_CONFIG_HASH`: Hash of the chain's rollup configuration
- `AGGREGATION_VKEY`: The verification key for the aggregation SP1 program
- `RANGE_VKEY_COMMITMENT`: The commitment to the BabyBear representation of the verification key of the range SP1 program
- `GENESIS_L2_BLOCK_NUMBER`: The genesis L2 block number
- `GENESIS_L2_OUTPUT_ROOT`: The genesis L2 output root
- `PROOF_REWARD`: Amount of ETH required to submit a challenge (the reward given to a proof generator).

### Key Functions

### Initialization

```solidity
function initialize() external payable virtual
```

Initializes the dispute game with:

- Parent game reference (if any)
  - First game uses `uint32.max` as parent index
  - Subsequent games must reference a valid parent game with:
    - Same game type
    - Parent game must not have been won by challenger
    - Parent game's root claim becomes the starting output root
    - Parent game's l2 block number becomes the starting block number

- Claimed output root
  - Must correspond to a block number after the starting block
  - For first game: starts from `GENESIS_L2_OUTPUT_ROOT`
  - For subsequent games: starts from parent game's l2 output root

- Proposer's bond deposit
  - Enforced by the `DisputeGameFactory` contract
  - Held in the dispute game contract until resolution

- Status
  - Set to `ProposalStatus.Unchallenged`
  - Starts `MAX_CHALLENGE_DURATION` timer

### Challenge

```solidity
function challenge() external payable returns (ProposalStatus)
```

Allows participants to challenge a proposal by:

- Depositing the proof reward (the challenge bond)
- Setting the proposal deadline to be `+ provingTime` over the current timestamp
- Updating proposal state to `ProposalStatus.Challenged`

### Proving

```solidity
function prove(bytes calldata proofBytes) external returns (ProposalStatus)
```

Validates a proof for a proposal:

- Timing Requirements
  - Must be submitted before the proof deadline
  - Clock starts when game is created (for unchallenged proofs)
  - Clock starts when game is challenged (for challenged proofs)

- Proof Verification
  - Uses SP1 verifier to validate the aggregation proof against public inputs:
    - L1 head hash (from game creation)
    - Starting output root (from parent game or genesis)
    - Claimed output root
    - Claimed L2 block number
    - Rollup configuration hash
    - Range verification key commitment
  - Uses aggregation verification key to verify the proof

- State Updates
  - Records the prover's address in `claimData.prover`
  - Updates proposal status if the proof is valid:
    - `ProposalStatus.UnchallengedAndValidProofProvided` if there was no challenge
    - `ProposalStatus.ChallengedAndValidProofProvided` if there was a challenge

- Rewards
  - No immediate reward distribution
  - Proof reward is distributed in `resolve()`:
    - If challenged: prover receives the challenger's bond
    - If unchallenged: no reward but can have fast finality

### Resolution

```solidity
function resolve() external returns (GameStatus)
```

Resolves the game by:

- Checking parent game status. Ensures that the parent game is resolved and that the proposal is valid. If the proposal is invalid (aka `CHALLENGER_WON`), then set the current game status to `CHALLENGER_WON`.
- If the current game is in `UnchallengedAndValidProofProvided` or `ChallengedAndValidProofProvided` state, then set `DEFENDER_WON`.
- Ensure that the deadline has passed, and if the proposal is `Unchallenged`, then set `DEFENDER_WON`.
- Ensure that the deadline has passed, and if the proposal is `Challenged`, then set `CHALLENGER_WON`
- Distributing bonds based on outcome
    - If parent game is `CHALLENGER_WON`, then the proposer's bond is distributed to the challenger.
      But if there was no challenge for the current game, then the proposer's bond is burned.

## Security Model

### Bond System

The contract implements a bond system to incentivize honest behavior:

1. **Proposal Bond**: Required to submit a proposal
2. **Proof Reward (Challenge Bond)**: Required to challenge a proposal, which is paid to successful provers

### Time Windows

Two key time windows ensure fair participation:

1. **Challenge Window**: Period during which proposals can be challenged
2. **Proving Window**: Time allowed for submitting proofs after a challenge

### Parent-Child Relationship

Proposals maintain a hierarchical relationship:

- Each proposal (except the first) has a parent
- Child proposals are only valid if their parent is valid
- Invalid parents automatically invalidate children

## Acknowledgements

Zach Obront, who worked on the first version of OP Succinct, prototyped a similar `MultiProof` dispute game implementation with OP Succinct as part of his work with the Ithaca team. This fault proof implementation takes some inspiration from his multiproof work.

Commit message:

docs: make initalization more clear in terms of initial state

book/fault_proofs/fault_proof_architecture.md, after:

# Architecture

OP Succinct is also offered in "fault proof" mode, which is a good solution for chains that wish to have faster finality while not paying the ZK proving costs for every single block. The exact same OP Succinct ZK program is used for this mode--the only difference is the smart contrcts deployed onchain that integrate with OP Stack's `DisputeGameFactory` contract.

## Overview

We assume that the reader has a solid understanding of the OP Stack's `DisputeGameFactory` and `IDisputeGame` interface. Documentation can be found [here](https://specs.optimism.io/fault-proof/stage-one/dispute-game-interface.html). We implement the `IDisputeGame` interface with a ZK-enabled fault proof (using the OP Succinct SP1 program) instead of the standard interactive bisection game that the vanilla OP Stack uses.

## Core Concepts

1. **Proposals**: Each proposal represents a claimed state transition from a start L2 block to an end L2 block with a `startL2OutputRoot` and a `claimedL2OutputRoot` where the output root is a commitment to the entirety of L2 state.
2. **Challenges**: Participants can challenge proposals they believe are invalid.
3. **Proofs**: ZK proofs that verify the correctness of state transitions contained in proposals, anchored against an L1 block hash.
4. **Resolution**: Process of determining whether a proposal is valid or not.

## Dispute Game Implementation

Proposing new state roots goes through the regular flow of the `DisputeGameFactory` to the `OPSuccinctFaultDisputeGame` contract that implements the `IDisputeGame` interface. Each proposal contains a link to a previous parent proposal (unless it is the first proposal after initialization, in which case it stores the parent index as `uint32.max`), and includes a `l2BlockNumber` and claimed `l2OutputRoot`.

Once a proposal is published and a `OPSuccinctFaultDisputeGame` created, the dispute game can be in one of several states:

- **Unchallenged**: The initial state of a new proposal
- **UnchallengedAndValidProofProvided**: A proposal that has been proven valid with a verified proof
- **Challenged**: A proposal that has been challenged but not yet proven
- **ChallengedAndValidProofProvided**: A challenged proposal that has been proven valid with a verified proof
- **Resolved**: The final state after resolution, either `GameStatus.CHALLENGER_WINS` or `GameStatus.DEFENDER_WINS`.

Note that "challenging" a proposal does not require a proof--as we want challenges to be able to be submitted quickly, without waiting for proof generation delay. Once a challenge is submitted, then the proposal's "timeout" is set to `MAX_PROVE_DURATION` parameter that allows for an extended amount of time to generate a proof to prove that the original proposal is correct. If a proof of validity is not submitted by the deadline, then the proposal is assumed to be invalid and the challenger wins. If a valid proof is submitted by the deadline, then the original proposer wins the dispute. Note that if a parent game is resolved in favor of a challenger wining, then any child game will also be considered invalid.

**Illustrative Example**

```mermaid
graph TB
    A[Genesis State
    Block: 0
    Root: 0x123] --> |Parent| B[Proposal 1
    Block: 1000
    Root: 0xabc
    State: DEFENDER_WON]
    B --> |Parent| C[Proposal 2A
    Block: 2000
    Root: 0xdef
    State: CHALLENGER_WON]
    B --> |Parent| D[Proposal 2B
    Block: 2000
    Root: 0xff1
    State: Unchallenged]
    C --> |Parent| E[Proposal 3A
    Block: 3000
    Root: 0xbee
    State: Unchallenged]
    D --> |Parent| F[Proposal 3B
    Block: 3000
    Root: 0xfab
    State: ChallengedAndValidProofProvided]

    classDef genesis fill:#d4edda,stroke:#155724
    classDef defender_won fill:#28a745,stroke:#1e7e34,color:#fff
    classDef challenger_won fill:#dc3545,stroke:#bd2130,color:#fff
    classDef unchallenged fill:#e2e3e5,stroke:#383d41
    classDef proven fill:#17a2b8,stroke:#138496,color:#fff

    class A genesis
    class B defender_won
    class C challenger_won
    class D,E unchallenged
    class F proven
```

In this example, Proposal 3A would always resolve to `CHALLENGER_WON`, as its parent 2A has `CHALLENGER_WON`. Proposal 3B would resolve to `DEFENDER_WON` if and only if its parent 2B successfully is unchallenged past its deadline and the final status is `DEFENDER_WON`.

## Contract Description

### Immutable Parameters

- `MAX_CHALLENGE_DURATION`: Time window during which a proposal can be challenged
- `MAX_PROVE_DURATION`: Time allowed for proving a challenge
- `GAME_TYPE`: The type of the game, which is set in the `DisputeGameFactory` contract
- `DISPUTE_GAME_FACTORY`: The factory contract that creates this game
- `SP1_VERIFIER`: The verifier contract that verifies the SP1 proof
- `ROLLUP_CONFIG_HASH`: Hash of the chain's rollup configuration
- `AGGREGATION_VKEY`: The verification key for the aggregation SP1 program
- `RANGE_VKEY_COMMITMENT`: The commitment to the BabyBear representation of the verification key of the range SP1 program
- `GENESIS_L2_BLOCK_NUMBER`: The genesis L2 block number
- `GENESIS_L2_OUTPUT_ROOT`: The genesis L2 output root
- `PROOF_REWARD`: Amount of ETH required to submit a challenge (the reward given to a proof generator).

### Key Functions

### Initialization

```solidity
function initialize() external payable virtual
```

Initializes the dispute game with:

- Initial state of the game
  - `startingOutputRoot`: Starting point for verification
    - For first game: `GENESIS_L2_OUTPUT_ROOT` at `GENESIS_L2_BLOCK_NUMBER`
    - For subsequent games: Parent game's root claim and block number
  
  - `claimData`: Core game state
    - `parentIndex`: Reference to parent game (`uint32.max` for first game)
    - `counteredBy`: Initially `address(0)`
    - `prover`: Initially `address(0)`
    - `claim`: Proposer's claimed output root
    - `status`: Set to `ProposalStatus.Unchallenged`
    - `deadline`: Set to `block.timestamp + MAX_CHALLENGE_DURATION`

- Validation Rules
  - Parent Game (if not first game)
    - Must be same game type
    - Must not have been won by challenger
    - Root claim becomes starting output root
  
  - Output Root
    - Must be after starting block number
    - First game starts from genesis
    - Later games start from parent's output

- Bond Management
  - Proposer's bond enforced by factory
  - Held in contract until resolution

Initialization will revert if:
- Already initialized
- Invalid parent game
- Root claim at/before starting block
- Incorrect calldata size for `extraData`

### Challenge

```solidity
function challenge() external payable returns (ProposalStatus)
```

Allows participants to challenge a proposal by:

- Depositing the proof reward (the challenge bond)
- Setting the proposal deadline to be `+ provingTime` over the current timestamp
- Updating proposal state to `ProposalStatus.Challenged`

### Proving

```solidity
function prove(bytes calldata proofBytes) external returns (ProposalStatus)
```

Validates a proof for a proposal:

- Timing Requirements
  - Must be submitted before the proof deadline
  - Clock starts when game is created (for unchallenged proofs)
  - Clock starts when game is challenged (for challenged proofs)

- Proof Verification
  - Uses SP1 verifier to validate the aggregation proof against public inputs:
    - L1 head hash (from game creation)
    - Starting output root (from parent game or genesis)
    - Claimed output root
    - Claimed L2 block number
    - Rollup configuration hash
    - Range verification key commitment
  - Uses aggregation verification key to verify the proof

- State Updates
  - Records the prover's address in `claimData.prover`
  - Updates proposal status if the proof is valid:
    - `ProposalStatus.UnchallengedAndValidProofProvided` if there was no challenge
    - `ProposalStatus.ChallengedAndValidProofProvided` if there was a challenge

- Rewards
  - No immediate reward distribution
  - Proof reward is distributed in `resolve()`:
    - If challenged: prover receives the challenger's bond
    - If unchallenged: no reward but can have fast finality

### Resolution

```solidity
function resolve() external returns (GameStatus)
```

Resolves the game by:

- Checking parent game status. Ensures that the parent game is resolved and that the proposal is valid. If the proposal is invalid (aka `CHALLENGER_WON`), then set the current game status to `CHALLENGER_WON`.
- If the current game is in `UnchallengedAndValidProofProvided` or `ChallengedAndValidProofProvided` state, then set `DEFENDER_WON`.
- Ensure that the deadline has passed, and if the proposal is `Unchallenged`, then set `DEFENDER_WON`.
- Ensure that the deadline has passed, and if the proposal is `Challenged`, then set `CHALLENGER_WON`
- Distributing bonds based on outcome
    - If parent game is `CHALLENGER_WON`, then the proposer's bond is distributed to the challenger.
      But if there was no challenge for the current game, then the proposer's bond is burned.

## Security Model

### Bond System

The contract implements a bond system to incentivize honest behavior:

1. **Proposal Bond**: Required to submit a proposal
2. **Proof Reward (Challenge Bond)**: Required to challenge a proposal, which is paid to successful provers

### Time Windows

Two key time windows ensure fair participation:

1. **Challenge Window**: Period during which proposals can be challenged
2. **Proving Window**: Time allowed for submitting proofs after a challenge

### Parent-Child Relationship

Proposals maintain a hierarchical relationship:

- Each proposal (except the first) has a parent
- Child proposals are only valid if their parent is valid
- Invalid parents automatically invalidate children

## Acknowledgements

Zach Obront, who worked on the first version of OP Succinct, prototyped a similar `MultiProof` dispute game implementation with OP Succinct as part of his work with the Ithaca team. This fault proof implementation takes some inspiration from his multiproof work.
