book/fault_proofs/testing.md, before:

# Testing Guide

This guide explains how to run and understand the test suite for the OP Succinct fault dispute game system.

## Overview

The fault-proof crate includes comprehensive end-to-end tests that run actual proposer and challenger binaries against a forked Ethereum network. These tests validate the complete lifecycle of dispute games including creation, challenges, resolution, and bond claims.

## Prerequisites

Before running the tests, ensure you have:

1. **Rust toolchain installed**
   ```bash
   curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh
   ```

2. **Nightly Foundry installed** (required for contract bindings)
   ```bash
   curl -L https://foundry.paradigm.xyz | bash
   foundryup --install nightly-d592b3e0f142d694c3be539702704a4a73238773
   ```

   As of July 11, 2025, you need to use Forge nightly for binding generation.

3. **Environment variables configured**
   ```bash
   export L1_RPC=<YOUR_L1_RPC>
   export L2_RPC=<YOUR_L2_RPC>
   export L2_NODE_RPC=<YOUR_L2_NODE_RPC>
   ```

## Available Tests

### End-to-End Tests (`fault-proof/tests/e2e.rs`)

The asynchronous end-to-end suite spins up real proposer and challenger services, interacts with
the dispute game factory, and warps Anvil time to exercise full lifecycles. Each test uses the
`_native` services and validates that contracts and coordination logic behave as expected.

#### Lifecycle Coverage

- `test_honest_proposer_native()`: Covers the proposer happy path end-to-end.
  - **Phase 1: Game Creation** – Proposer seeds three canonical games from L2 state.
  - **Phase 2: Challenge Period** – Time is warped to the end of `MAX_CHALLENGE_DURATION`.
  - **Phase 3: Resolution** – Games auto-resolve to `ProposerWins`.
  - **Phase 4: Bond Claims** – Proposer claims the bonds after
    `DISPUTE_GAME_FINALITY_DELAY_SECONDS`.
- `test_honest_challenger_native()`: Validates that a challenger finds and defeats invalid roots.
  - **Phase 1: Create Invalid Games** – Helper code submits outputs with random invalid roots.
  - **Phase 2: Challenges** – Challenger service files disputes for each invalid game.
  - **Phase 3: Resolution** – The clock is warped past both challenge and prove windows, ensuring
    `ChallengerWins`.
  - **Phase 4: Bond Claims** – Challenger recovers bonds once the finality delay elapses.

#### Game Type Transition

- `test_game_type_transition_skips_legacy_games()`: Seeds the factory with legacy permissioned
  games, ensures the respected game type is restored, and verifies the proposer starts producing
  fresh `TEST_GAME_TYPE` games without touching legacy ones. The test also asserts that historical
  mock games remain `IN_PROGRESS`.

#### Game Chain Validation Scenarios

These tests focus on anchor selection, parent validation, and handling of invalid chains:

- `test_game_chain_validation_invalid_parent()`: Builds a chain where a valid child points to an
  invalid parent. When the proposer relaunches, it skips the poisoned branch and continues from a
  clean anchor.
- `test_game_chain_validation_challenged_parent()`: Creates a valid parent/child pair, allows the
  parent to be challenged and resolved to `ChallengerWins`, and confirms the proposer restarts from
  a fresh anchor instead of extending the tainted chain.
- `test_game_chain_validation_anchor_reset()`: Constructs two branches, finalizes an alternate
  branch, manually resets the anchor registry, and verifies the proposer begins building on the new
  canonical ancestor (`parentIndex == b1_index`).

## Running the Tests

### Basic Test Execution
```bash
# Run all end-to-end tests with single thread and no capture
just e2e-tests
```

Commit message:

docs: some notes and refinements for smoother onboarding (#662)
* docs: misc improvements primarily around fault-proofs

* fix: add just installation for testing

* nit

* refactor: improve fp upgrade process

* fix: mock verifier link

* fix: -v flag when docker down

* docs: easier validity quick start to follow

* fix: remove eigenda configs from env + note

* nit: consistent wording in expr sections

* fix: remove eigenda unnecessary variables

book/fault_proofs/testing.md, after:

# Testing Guide

This guide explains how to run and understand the test suite for the OP Succinct fault dispute game system.

## Overview

The fault-proof crate includes comprehensive end-to-end tests that run actual proposer and challenger binaries against a forked Ethereum network. These tests validate the complete lifecycle of dispute games including creation, challenges, resolution, and bond claims.

## Prerequisites

Before running the tests, ensure you have:

1. **Rust toolchain installed**
   ```bash
   curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh
   ```

2. **Nightly Foundry installed** (required for contract bindings)
   ```bash
   curl -L https://foundry.paradigm.xyz | bash
   foundryup --install nightly-d592b3e0f142d694c3be539702704a4a73238773
   ```
    As of July 11, 2025, you need to use Forge nightly for binding generation.

3. **`just` installed for task running**. (Can be installed via `cargo`)
   ```bash
    cargo install just
    ```

4. **Environment variables configured**
   ```bash
   export L1_RPC=<YOUR_L1_RPC>
   export L2_RPC=<YOUR_L2_RPC>
   export L2_NODE_RPC=<YOUR_L2_NODE_RPC>
   ```

## Available Tests

### End-to-End Tests (`fault-proof/tests/e2e.rs`)

The asynchronous end-to-end suite spins up real proposer and challenger services, interacts with
the dispute game factory, and warps Anvil time to exercise full lifecycles. Each test uses the
`_native` services and validates that contracts and coordination logic behave as expected.

#### Lifecycle Coverage

- `test_honest_proposer_native()`: Covers the proposer happy path end-to-end.
  - **Phase 1: Game Creation** – Proposer seeds three canonical games from L2 state.
  - **Phase 2: Challenge Period** – Time is warped to the end of `MAX_CHALLENGE_DURATION`.
  - **Phase 3: Resolution** – Games auto-resolve to `ProposerWins`.
  - **Phase 4: Bond Claims** – Proposer claims the bonds after
    `DISPUTE_GAME_FINALITY_DELAY_SECONDS`.
- `test_honest_challenger_native()`: Validates that a challenger finds and defeats invalid roots.
  - **Phase 1: Create Invalid Games** – Helper code submits outputs with random invalid roots.
  - **Phase 2: Challenges** – Challenger service files disputes for each invalid game.
  - **Phase 3: Resolution** – The clock is warped past both challenge and prove windows, ensuring
    `ChallengerWins`.
  - **Phase 4: Bond Claims** – Challenger recovers bonds once the finality delay elapses.

#### Game Type Transition

- `test_game_type_transition_skips_legacy_games()`: Seeds the factory with legacy permissioned
  games, ensures the respected game type is restored, and verifies the proposer starts producing
  fresh `TEST_GAME_TYPE` games without touching legacy ones. The test also asserts that historical
  mock games remain `IN_PROGRESS`.

#### Game Chain Validation Scenarios

These tests focus on anchor selection, parent validation, and handling of invalid chains:

- `test_game_chain_validation_invalid_parent()`: Builds a chain where a valid child points to an
  invalid parent. When the proposer relaunches, it skips the poisoned branch and continues from a
  clean anchor.
- `test_game_chain_validation_challenged_parent()`: Creates a valid parent/child pair, allows the
  parent to be challenged and resolved to `ChallengerWins`, and confirms the proposer restarts from
  a fresh anchor instead of extending the tainted chain.
- `test_game_chain_validation_anchor_reset()`: Constructs two branches, finalizes an alternate
  branch, manually resets the anchor registry, and verifies the proposer begins building on the new
  canonical ancestor (`parentIndex == b1_index`).

## Running the Tests

### Basic Test Execution
```bash
# Run all end-to-end tests with single thread and no capture
just e2e-tests
```
