book/SUMMARY.md, before:

# Summary

- [Introduction](./introduction.md)
- [Architecture](./architecture.md)
- [Quick Start](./quick-start/intro.md)
  - [Prerequisites](./quick-start/prerequisites.md)
  - [Run the Cost Estimator](./quick-start/cost-estimator.md)
  - [OP Succinct in Mock Mode](./quick-start/mock.md)
  - [OP Succinct in Full Mode](./quick-start/full.md)
  - [Migrate to OP Succinct](./quick-start/upgrade-l2-output-oracle.md)
- [Advanced](./advanced/intro.md)
  - [Verify the OP Succinct binaries](./advanced/verify-binaries.md)
  - [L2 Node Setup](./advanced/node-setup.md)
  - [Block Data CLI Tool](./advanced/block-data.md)
  - [Proposer](./advanced/proposer.md)
  - [Toggle Optimistic Mode](./advanced/toggle-optimistic.md)
  - [Kurtosis](./advanced/kurtosis.md)
  - [Upgrade to a new `op-succinct` version](./advanced/upgrade.md)
- [Contracts](./contracts/intro.md)
  - [Configuration](./contracts/configuration.md)
  - [Deploy](./contracts/deploy.md)
  - [Upgrade Contract](./contracts/upgrade.md)
  - [Update Contract Parameters](./contracts/update-parameters.md)
  - [Modifications to Original `L2OutputOracle`](./contracts/modifications.md)
- [Fault Proofs](./fault_proofs/fault_proof_architecture.md)
- [Experimental](./experimental/intro.md)
  - [OptimismPortalV2](./experimental/optimism-portal-v2.md)
- [FAQ](./faq.md)
- [Troubleshooting](./troubleshooting.md)

Commit message:

feat: implement proposer (#349)
* feat(fault_proof): implement proposer

* fix: fix deploy script to set reward/bond in wei

* docs: add quick start guide

* cleanup

* fix

book/SUMMARY.md, after:

# Summary

- [Introduction](./introduction.md)
- [Architecture](./architecture.md)
- [Quick Start](./quick-start/intro.md)
  - [Prerequisites](./quick-start/prerequisites.md)
  - [Run the Cost Estimator](./quick-start/cost-estimator.md)
  - [OP Succinct in Mock Mode](./quick-start/mock.md)
  - [OP Succinct in Full Mode](./quick-start/full.md)
  - [Migrate to OP Succinct](./quick-start/upgrade-l2-output-oracle.md)
- [Advanced](./advanced/intro.md)
  - [Verify the OP Succinct binaries](./advanced/verify-binaries.md)
  - [L2 Node Setup](./advanced/node-setup.md)
  - [Block Data CLI Tool](./advanced/block-data.md)
  - [Proposer](./advanced/proposer.md)
  - [Toggle Optimistic Mode](./advanced/toggle-optimistic.md)
  - [Kurtosis](./advanced/kurtosis.md)
  - [Upgrade to a new `op-succinct` version](./advanced/upgrade.md)
- [Contracts](./contracts/intro.md)
  - [Configuration](./contracts/configuration.md)
  - [Deploy](./contracts/deploy.md)
  - [Upgrade Contract](./contracts/upgrade.md)
  - [Update Contract Parameters](./contracts/update-parameters.md)
  - [Modifications to Original `L2OutputOracle`](./contracts/modifications.md)
- [Fault Proofs](./fault_proofs/fault_proof_architecture.md)
  - [Quick Start](./fault_proofs/quick_start.md)
  - [Deploy FP Contracts](./fault_proofs/deploy.md)
  - [How to run the FP Proposer](./fault_proofs/proposer.md)
- [Experimental](./experimental/intro.md)
  - [OptimismPortalV2](./experimental/optimism-portal-v2.md)
- [FAQ](./faq.md)
- [Troubleshooting](./troubleshooting.md)
